This is Jocco podcast number 258, with me, Jocco willing.
Several AK-47's open fire before the King Bees wheels touch down.
Nonetheless, black in the remaining 3-Vitanamese ST Alabama team members exited the H-34.
As the King be lifted off, the NVA gunfire increased significantly, and moments later, the laboring Sikorski H-34 crashed.
Although this was black's first song mission into Prairie Fire, he knew the odds were stacked against ST Alabama.
He and Cowboy argued vigorously for an immediate extraction.
The team had been compromised. The element of surprise was gone.
The other American who had not gone through special forces qualification course at Fort Bragg remained silent.
No, said the new one-zero, I'm an American, no slant-eyed son of a bitch is going to run me off.
Watkins offered the one-zero a chance to extract. The offer was declined. The team was to continue.
The team leader ordered the point man to walk down a well-traveled trail away from the LZ into the jungle.
Black, Cowboy, and the point man Hoa argued against heading down the trail. The first rule of recon was to never use trails, especially well-traveled ones.
The one-zero pulled rank and ordered the team to move down the trail with Hoa leading the way and the elder Green Bore following a short distance behind him.
The trail wound into the jungle and curved to the left. ST Alabama moved consciously. As the team went down the trail, it moved parallel to a small rise on its right.
That was about 10 to 20 feet above the team. On at the NVA kernel, had quickly assembled a force of 50 NVA soldiers who set up a classic L-shaped ambush.
The quiet of the early morning jungle was shattered when the NVA troops opened fire with their AK-47s and SKS rifles. The AK rounds ripped into the point man's chest and face.
The fatal impact of those rounds lifted the canteen covers around his waist, appearing to keep his body suspended in air.
What had been a human body milliseconds earlier was being chewed into a morphous form that hit the ground with a sickening thud.
Our tierial blood spurred at high end of the air. Three rounds slammed into the one-zero's head, blowing off the right side of his face, killing him instantly. Nothing could prepare ST Alabama for the grizzly horror unfolding at that moment. The one-one buried his face in the dirt and started praying.
Black and the remaining ST Alabama team members returned fire. The green berets stood there firing us on single shot. Picking off NVA soldiers on top of the rise. He loaded his car 15 and went down the line shooting them one after another.
Sometimes they spun and he shot them a second or third time. As the NVA continued to fire on the team, black and cowboy formed the team into a circle and directed a barrage of M79 grenade rounds and car 15 fire into the surrounding jungle.
Then, startling eerie silence. Black thought he was in his grave. ST Alabama was in a low spot with the ground rising 10 to 20 feet on both left and right.
Both the NVA and ST Alabama tended to their wounded while the living combatants slammed loaded magazines into their hot weapons.
There was moaning and groaning, human suffering on both sides. Black got on the PRC 25 to tell Kovie about ST Alabama's tragic turn of events. Black and though scabbard,
the weapons and ammo from the dead ST Alabama team members. Fortunately, Kovie was still airborne. Black reported that he had two KIAs and two WIAs and was surrounded by NVA troops.
Kovie responded, you're not a doctor. Nor for that fact, a medic. You can't determine who's dead or alive. Bring out all bodies for verification of death.
Then, more than 100 NVA regulars open fire on ST Alabama as enemy troops at reinforced the initial ambush unit. By now, the NVA were too low's deep. The front row fired AK-47s.
The second row through grenades or fired RPGs.
Now, that is a story from the book across the fence by John Straggermire, also known as tilt.
It's a story of October 5th, 1968, a special forces sob mission over the border in the Louss.
The story is also covered in the book Whiskey Tango Fox Drop, which is by Lynn Black, called Name Black, Jack.
And for a variety of reasons, Lynn was not able to join us on the show, but through tilt and his friends and the special operations community.
We are absolutely honored to have with us tonight, con cowboy don't, Vietnamese soldier that fought for freedom alongside American special forces soldiers from Sog.
Con, thank you for joining us. It's an honor to have you here.
My pleasure. And also joining us once again is John Straggermire, the man himself, tilt, a special forces soldier and member of Sog, who has been on the podcast before 180, 181, 182, 186, 247 and 248.
Good to be back sir. Good to be here with cowboy. Thank you. Con, it's awesome to have you here. And so your nickname is cowboy. How do we get the nickname cowboy?
One mission I have a good name for a radio contact, they put me name cowboy. And then, a lot of guys are going, I still survival. So my man, I'm working in a man, combi cowboy from them.
It's a good name. We always call it that in camp. Nobody called it colonel. It's like, hey cowboy, we knew cowboy was.
You can, yeah, a little bit difficult to pronounce, yes and know by American. So it is easy on, you know, like the, for friendly say, hey cowboy at all the time, even my commanding official.
Make it snow. Right. Cool. When we got information every single morning call me cowboy. Everybody going, no who, who I was. And well, that's awesome. Before you came cowboy, what let's go back to your, you know, where you're from, where you grew up, what that, what that was like, a lot of, a lot of Americans, we don't know what that's like growing up in Vietnam.
So what year were you born? I was born from North Vietnam. The Nin Bane, provided. And then I watched, very young. I don't know anything.
But 1954, my family moved to the south in order, the communist took over North Vietnam. We immigrated to the south and we live in in Sagan for two years. My family moved up to the last city. You know, the, the, the, the, the, I sent them. They're very nice city, beautiful.
Beautiful, beautiful and the the weather it like it the just normal. And you can see the, you can see the lot like the young lady.
So you like it. We live in there. What was it like when before you left, what was it like when the communist came and took over. Yeah, what the, what was that like for your family. What did it, what did they do? What did that seem like what happened.
I don't know because I was young, but understand up to that that a communist wanted to kill everybody and they want to collect, you know, property from their citizen to be, you know, like at the communist party.
And that's why my family moved from North to the south. What was your father's job? What did he do?
Actually, I still, now I still don't understand what he did. He only the Bayesian at man. But he was in the business of business vision of man. Yes. And he moved now to the south. He vision that, but inside, you, you know, the back rise.
And he was in there, but I don't know who he was. Okay. And sometimes he, he'd be the taxi driver and motorcycle driver to take care of the people, but understand now understand like he's quite.
And the, under, under the cover, any way, anytime. And 19th century tree, president, not in Jim, you know him.
He was a passenger before Kennedy before Kennedy. Yes. And I, I, I strong believe that he worked with him. And after revolution, revolution from the, from the, yeah, Vietnamese army.
They put my father in jail because he worked for the old government. He worked for the president Jim. That time I, what, like it.
I, I, I do not understand it. But when I visited him, the time he was in jail, I learned something. I learned something about him.
And I'm thinking about, you know, what I'm trying to do to pay back the people, you know, did to my father.
He, in jail, but he very smart man. He told me, a American gunna go to Vietnam. When I, what, Jiang, I study French.
And then when he in jail, he say, hey, I better learn English because he understand the American gunna come to Vietnam. And study, I, I'm studying English at the time.
But, like it for me, it, my family very close to, you know, the use it. I mean, Vietnamese American Association. So I studied from them.
And then my father still in jail. And my father, you know, they're going to make it going down a lot. So I tried to survive by myself and for my family.
And I'm very lucky when I studied English, my teacher. He's American. He understand my situation and my family. And he, at five years, to join to the army.
And I, but I, I don't know about him too, but he for a nice guy. Me, me, you don't know what his actual job was.
He only teaches just the teacher. You're the teacher. But I thought in my, my, he was, he knew extra work for the government sometime.
Yeah, yeah, he saw me. Yes. He got to go, you know, to pick up the who's the bad guy or who's the good guy.
Because in the class, he, all the, all the time, where, where your family, what he, what, what has been, you know, our situation, my family.
But the money, I'm, you know, how do we survival? He, he learned from us a lot from the student. And I believe, you know, up to that he pick up the student to become, you know, the, the employee for the US government.
That's what I talked right now. So he was a recruiter looking for good people that will do a good job on fighting for the future.
And good man on do something or a smart man.
That the way I'm talking about my teacher. So when you, when he told you to join the army, how did you feel about that idea?
Oh, he saw me the, the movie.
Yeah, Peter. Yeah, Peter. One of the, yeah, about JFK. Yes. Okay. And in the class, you know, he showed the movie.
He said you want to be John App, can you say, why not?
And, and not only one time, he asked me, he asked me a lot.
And he now, something going on to the, to my family. And he can grit.
What are you going to do?
Say, you're joined to the army. But I said, I don't know anything about it. That's what he told.
And he go, my friend, another friend, say, take him to the, uh, joined with the special force.
I said, what the hell, this special force? The people crazy.
Because the Vietnam War, when a situation like it, you know now, the marionor, you know,
course guard, you know, like infantry, you like airborne. So you know who's the one, which one the hero?
And I don't know anything about it. Say, try it, try it.
And they written letter to SIGON to a pastor to, to shock his order.
Yes, he caught him on pastor's pastor.
He got there's strict SIGON.
Yes.
And I said, yeah, I, I go.
So how old were you at this time?
17.
Yeah.
And what year was it?
And 19.
So 1966, you're 17 years old.
And you sent, or they sent a letter to SIG, telling that they've got a good,
really good.
Good. He speaks English.
And as a hot commodity, we need a good English speaker's interpreters.
Did you have any idea what you were getting into?
No.
I don't know.
But, you know, when we were young, we were going to be hero.
We're going to be, you know, like it, stronger, more than another one.
Like Jay.
So I just joined it.
Like Jay, okay.
Yeah.
And I said, hey, John, can I do everything?
You see, I'm a little bit different.
You know, from this one, he's swim.
Oh, you're another iceman.
I love it.
They just man.
Yeah.
Took his man and saved him.
Handsome guy.
Yes.
I like him very much.
So that's why I'm joined.
So what was your view of America at that time?
You must have had a pretty positive view of America.
You knew you were going to join the army.
And you were going to support the American efforts there.
I don't pay attention anything.
I just want to join and join.
Do it.
Whatever they need to me to do it.
And you know, my man, actually, you know, my, on behalf of my father, you know, most of
him, like a toned guy, cow, everybody in my village, in the county.
He's a, we're talking about the nongs, the Chinese.
So they know who I was.
They know who am I.
So they worked together.
We worked together at all the time in the camp.
So that's why I can go with the French man team.
Right.
I go with the Ross Island team.
I go with the Mississippi team.
I got them.
I got them before.
I got them now.
I go anywhere.
Because this day, hey, cowboy, you good man.
We need to learn from him.
So that's why, you know, I like to go with him.
With them.
Because on behalf of the attitude, my family and my father, two day of family.
So we worked together a lot of time.
One day, I get you know vacation.
I want to vacation.
He said, hey, cowboy, tomorrow I got to go.
You got to go with me.
I said, yes, I do.
And then I quit my vacation.
I go with the team.
So to training is order, to learning from is order.
I'm not saying, you know, I'm good man.
But my experience.
When I watch young, I'm in jungle.
With my family, we work farmer.
So I'm, you know, strong.
Look, skinny, but strong.
Right.
And sometimes, sometimes, you know, I'm, I'm thought, we got to do it.
We got to do it.
You can see my hand here.
Skull.
I can cut the bullet.
I can't.
So I do the anime.
So they like your bullets.
Cowboy catching bullets.
So I'm just to prove it.
Okay.
She here.
I got to wounded.
I got to wounded every way in my body.
When I do, she'll arrive.
And I'll tell you, you're lucky.
You were skinny because if you're any bigger, those bullets would have hit more spots.
You were hard to shoot at.
Yeah, you're right.
Not big like a human.
When I saw him, the first I saw now, the him, he said, hey, this guy too big.
You know, he's footed at longer.
That was sales.
Yeah.
Normally, American, the big guy, like a youth.
And like a him.
But, you know, when we there, we were skinny.
And a small one.
Like a hundred, a hundred, a twenty-pound.
You know, look, look and hey, they're maybe shun, right?
Right, that American goal.
My people, they're really shun.
Little people.
Yeah, little people.
Yeah.
A flexion of turn.
Yeah, yeah.
And but you grew up in the jungle.
So for you being in the jungle was just just normal.
That's just, just normal.
That's normal.
You're just, that's the way you live.
That's the way you grew up.
So that's a real advantage.
Yes.
I'm like the round eye over here.
I'm not the city's looking.
I can, I can, I don't, I'm not, I'm not going to tell you.
We can smell this.
Just smell.
Because when we go land out in the jungle.
Mm-hmm.
They got a flower right.
They got a plant, the rice, or they got a plant.
Home got a thing in the jungle.
Mm-hmm.
We know.
We can imagine.
Say, what they're going to do?
Where the, they live in.
And where the postgar.
Where the hot spitover.
And we, we can smell it.
Mm-hmm.
And then my six-end can understand how communist activity there.
They can grow up.
They can do anything.
Because we, we, we local people.
Right.
That's why the green berets love our indigenous people.
Yeah.
The nuns, like he said, he could smell.
They had the extra sense that we never had.
But generally somebody like me is city slicker.
That's why people like him are number one.
And they kept us alive.
Mm-hmm.
In the jungle, we, we yielded to them.
They always ran point, not us.
And they got me.
We local, local, local people there.
And we can smell different.
Like at the burr.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Chicken, wait, wait, wait, wait.
We, we can, compared relation, royal weight.
Incha the jungle.
If you see to cry it.
That means no ordinary mood, right?
That's a problem.
That a problem is close.
We understand exactly.
Right.
I always say, hey, keep your fucking head down.
I'm sorry.
It's a problem.
But that, too.
Because people need to keep their fucking heads down.
Yeah, yeah.
That's the fucking truth.
But it true.
I'm not telling you, lie on it.
You know.
And then.
What was the training like that you went through to get you ready to work with the special forces team?
Did you go into the regular army?
Did they process you into the regular army?
Or did they just take you up to one of the, one of the, one of the C, C, and or something?
Can't duck.
You just put it in duck.
That was the first, uh, saw training base was up I core.
And camp duck was open, had bad weather.
But that's where they did the natural training.
That's where they did the loud.
Yeah, very close to the border.
How long did they train you for?
Long time.
Even now.
When they send you there, you're free to do.
And me, not in the long, not in the morning, wake up sick of clouds.
Whatever they needed to train it, they call you.
One or two.
P, A, M, or one, A, two, P, M.
And they let you free.
And me, um, tomorrow we got to go range range many times.
And then.
What, what are you thinking when we, you got young?
The first time that you can't go in.
We got to like a tan, you know, boxed off the baller.
Right.
We go there.
We should free.
Um, only my friends say, hey, how to.
We need to go to work the weapon.
And then next day, we got to go range of to fire.
How to clean the weapon.
And then yes, would you, would you carry an AK or you carry a car 15?
Okay, the first thing when I, John, what, uh, enjoy it and joined it.
Only copy.
Okay.
And then later, copy in the M1 and M2.
And then after that, they changed to squid and K.
Sweet and sweet is okay.
Sweet and K and then stand.
Oh, the stands.
Yeah, the legs in the side.
Yes.
And later on, we moved to the, uh, Fubai.
We usually am 16.
They are 15.
And then the core 15.
And then am 16.
Right.
And then the calf 15.
Because they're hard to combine.
But we, we training.
Ever a weapon.
Like a mortar, 82, 60.
Right.
Yeah.
To punch the anime.
Sure.
We're trying to hone kind of weapon or be funny.
I'm 72.
And with these special forces, American special forces soldiers that you guys were in charge or some group was in charge of training.
Yes.
That was a calm at Camp Duck.
It was the first camp.
So it's so many early saw guys were there.
And that was part of the recruitment they came through saw he gone.
And that's why I calmed away and ended up there.
And I was training and plus the camp was so close to the board.
You had self defense at night.
Yes.
There would be, there would be pods.
And the NVA attacked the camp several times prior to May, 68 when the camp got overrun.
And it was, there's a whole book about that called bait.
And, uh, after that, they closed camp duck heat.
And, but that time, Alabama was already at Fubai 1.
And when they closed camp duck, they would come duck and then jump over to, uh, Fubai 1.
So I get there in May of 68 later May back in tired and these guys came in with his team.
And of course, you want to tell them about Alaska.
Alaska.
Yeah, what happened with, uh, STL, Alaska?
They blow out.
Everybody was killed a couple of the one zero.
John Allen who escaped.
And he can't, he need for two days.
And they caught, and he wanted to heal a cop the cops brought him back.
And they said, we want to change the name of the team.
They changed it from Alaska to Alabama.
And then Tim Shawf was the one zero when you're a train.
John Allen, John Allen first.
David.
John Allen.
And then, uh, team shop.
And then, then, then, after we went to the Fubai 1.
Fubai 1.
Yeah, later.
We, we got to go Fubai, no, Danay.
But we fought C.C.M.
But that was the end.
But this is like, May was a very incremental month.
So was that was that where you first checked in, you went to Alaska or had Alaska just become Alabama?
Yes.
The first, the first.
The only reason why you didn't go on the mission.
He had, has turned a mission or he would have been on that mission with Alaska.
No.
I'm from the, it's, uh, Hatcha Fox.
Oh, that's right.
I forgot.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
Yeah.
Hatcha Fox.
We worked, you know, like a, the play too, no company.
To go with, after he even got a contact to the anime.
And the people from the, from the recon go down to the Hatcha Fox.
Looking through the bad who the good.
And they say, hey, cowboy, you want to be, uh, re-continue.
I say, why not?
I try my best.
Yeah.
And the first thing I came to the, uh, to the team, re-continue.
I scan it everybody.
Looking, you know, bad guy.
Look at it.
Because he, the nuns are told in the other Vietnamese team.
And the people say, hey, okay.
Try your best.
And then I joined the team.
At the time, at the time of that, I was going to burn out.
They didn't blow out.
And when they joined it, they got to rebuild the team.
And they say, hey, alas guy, it no good.
Too many girls, because too many people died.
So we need to change the net.
Mm-hmm.
And change to alabama.
And then we worked with alabama until FoB1 close.
And then we came to the nun, Sisiyan.
Sisiyan, they got it.
Alabama team, that too.
So my name was Chiang to Indiana.
Oh, okay.
That was early 69.
After they closed that for B1.
And till it was telling me about one time when you were getting taken out on strings.
And somehow you ended up upside down or something like that.
Yeah, just with you.
Just normal thing.
But I remember we had to contact with the enemy.
But we cannot move out here to the energy.
We each had the younger.
And then the chompul came in, throwed out the rope.
One up each, we had a rope, different rope.
Mm-hmm.
But Tadiko for shape, for the team.
For guy, come up pick up the rope, do hang it up.
And another for guy still, you know, keep them safety.
Right.
This is really, keeps you safety.
And then after the chompul air, pull out the four guy, we came over.
And then another for rope, throw it down, we tried to hook it up.
But I, in John Allen, another two Vietnamese guy hook up the rope.
When I turn over, you know, I try to hook myself into my rope.
But I look it up.
You know, the tree here, the rope, it turned over.
Oh, the tree.
So what happened?
What are you going to do?
I say, hey, now let's look it up.
And then, you know, we, we on a stable wreck, we don't have a stable wreck.
No, this is for sea.
Yeah, we have a tree road to one for sea.
And one for here.
And another two for sea.
Right.
And John Allen saw it.
He gave me one from him.
I hook it up there.
You know, the chompul is going to cut it down.
And I drop it back to the, to the plan I got to die.
And then, the pull up.
I only want string in here.
Wow.
You're the deering holding in.
Yeah.
And when they're going up like a,
a thousand feet on a thousand feet something.
And then I got a roof shop here.
I got a garden.
I got a, you know, the, my web here.
Yes.
And then it going down to an over to here to my knee.
You're upside down there.
Oops, right now.
I know that's feeling.
And then John Allen won a warp it.
But, but the wind cannot be together at a time.
So when I warp it, it going down to, to my, my dear to your feet.
Now, yeah, yes.
But luckily, we're going to jungle boot.
You know the, the form that we jungle boot.
Yes.
It's still tight here.
And I all the way down.
So you were hanging on the rope by just your ankle and your jungle boot.
It's jungle boot.
Yeah.
And then John Allen should have,
because we got a flag on it.
We would should flag on.
Yes.
And you know, the, the chop was still frozen.
And we, we understand that we, we, we, we, we thought,
you know, they might not, might not know.
Something, you know, you know, you're upside down.
Yes.
So so John Allen was shooting the flare gun to try and get the helicopter pilots to realize what was happening to look and down.
But.
They did the communist and the ground.
So how do we do.
So, you know, if flow that still flow, flow, flow.
And then my, my body up and down.
And until we glow to the full body.
And the job would drop out.
When, when I lie down on the ground.
I still understand.
I look down to the migrant, the, the magazine, the empty.
I change the magazine, lock and low, the hand and do it.
And then the pilot coming down to pick me up to the,
the pilot inside the chopper.
Right.
And I don't know anything anymore.
You're unconscious.
From there to the, to the, to the full body.
Good Johnson.
You know, good Johnson.
Right.
Yes.
The medic.
And then by that time, he was all conscious.
And the medic was Bruce Johnson on that.
Missionary in the helicopter.
No, he, he inside the camp.
Okay. He, he died.
And Bruce, what he do is elbow in your chest to wake the injured heart going.
But I still, I still know everything, even I die.
Wow.
Then Bruce Johnson should again.
Hey, medic.
And the kind of coming in.
Yeah.
Pick me up to the, to the 85 posh bitter.
Right.
And on the way, he, he tried it, you know,
Wake me up.
The user elbow.
When they lie down here, punch in here.
You can cheat.
The bone coming out.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Bruce was our medic.
And so he died three times.
And Bruce told us about that years later.
And he brought him back to life.
And they thought he was dead.
They took him down to the field hospital right there in Foo Bay.
Jay, hey, I beat you up.
You, you don't wake up.
You had a die, but it.
You say, I love you very much.
Yeah.
You know, you love me very much.
But I don't know anything.
But I remember I, what he taught.
I remember who got the thing.
But I cannot do anything.
Then me, I die for something.
And then they brought me to the hospital.
Dr. Say, hey, can't do anything to me anymore.
But I remember, do you remember hearing the doctor say that they can't help you anymore?
Yes.
I still alive.
Even, I don't do anything.
I can't do anything.
The people thought I'm dead.
But myself, I still alive.
Wow.
I hear what you say.
I know something going on.
Not something.
I live in there.
I feel bruised on your chest.
Yeah, even, even in my chest right here.
I can't see the ball on the head.
There it is.
The special forces' medics, mental and lanceless,
the do anything to keep you alive.
Yes.
Everything.
Yeah.
The footing keeps putting him.
He completely.
We go, we go.
He almost cry.
I know that.
But I can't do anything.
I've sat down long time.
And then, after he tried to wake me up by least one,
and then I woke up.
You see how big the bruise, right?
Yeah, yeah.
He was in shape then.
After that, two hours.
Three hours.
I think three hours.
I forget.
Three hours.
My team came by grip.
I go.
And he said,
I'm a good man.
We got to bring him back.
Everybody drove.
John now.
Yeah, John now.
Can't cry.
Took a trip.
Right.
Do up to the hospital.
Pointed gun to the doctor.
Say,
You had to take care of him.
Are you wondering, you die?
So John Allen went to the doctor and brought a gun and said,
You have to take care of our boy cowboy.
Sometimes the doctor is the American doctor's air of a reluctant John Walton did that.
They had the same problem.
They had to his missing analogous and with cowboy.
They heard they weren't getting the right treatment.
The ones that went right down there and they addressed the doctor.
Because they had a policy.
No indigenous people at the hospital.
And that's what they were up against.
And our team leaders had to get little aggressive.
That is all that problem.
Well, in this case was a car 15.
Yeah, we got a young Walton.
He just read the beat.
Okay.
You and Pete right now, right?
You know,
my chest.
Played more.
My.
Oh,
Cop 15.
And good.
Yeah.
What do you think?
Yeah, I've got to do whatever you want me to do.
Yeah.
They came up to the hospital saying,
You better take care of cowboy.
And my friend,
Do you know the people drunk,
crying,
miss me.
I knew I hear that.
But I can do anything.
And my,
you give me a coffee.
You give me smoke.
And I don't know.
Maybe they put the hot water into my mouth.
And I feel something go through here.
And I wake up.
See, hey.
What the hell are we going on here?
Where's the party?
And let it out.
We come back to camp.
This is all before October 5th.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did you, now did you,
did I hear right that you had a relative?
That was also.
Yeah.
Well, his wife's brother was on STI to ho,
when Idaho got wiped out in May of 68.
That was your wife's brother, brother.
Brother.
Have you come to town and travel there,
Where shows all that you know?
And do you tell any of it,
to make sure you hold one on a shared beggining.
Because I found one on
Tet, poniewa they gave you something.
the total line from 66 to 72.
I mean, 66 to mid-Optus 67, the time range for training.
In 66, I'm joined by my team,
tier 2 August 72.
I lost my leg.
So these guys, you're going out the whole time.
You're just going out on mission, mission, mission.
Yes.
No, I mean, another way, maybe you go back to town,
get a little break for a week or something a month.
But most of the time, she's a work.
Yes, sometimes.
You know, like the, yes, I just count a month or one mission.
Total time.
Sometimes, only 10 days, sometimes one month, three time.
So that's why we received the money,
get paid for two time or three time.
Okay, for example, on the first day of the month,
we take the money.
We go downtown for two or three days.
And after three days, we have no more money left.
Yes, mission.
Many, many, mission.
I say, okay, we go.
And we stand by there for a week because the weather or whatever,
you know, the summer prison, we can not go.
And then we went there, but, you know, the, you know, the sun glow, right?
And when we come up to the energy,
the company should have, we came back.
We're not jumping now.
And then up to few days, one zero,
we got a pass, go past.
He's saying, okay, for one day.
And, you know, I try to do it.
He, he understand it.
No money.
He, he took to the, yes, one,
to get a money.
And then we on, we on past for two days.
Or whatever, we can, we can buy.
Because the reason we stand by for that target,
we cannot go, you know, the long trip,
like it goes, I go on, no, that lot.
Just go away, yes.
And then, come back for the mission again.
We come up there because the weather or whatever.
For up to a week, we cannot go at the weekend.
I say, as far as October 5th,
beginning the month, they got through the pay day,
and the weather broke.
Could we had rains, some, we had to end the month, soon, season.
We stand by for the target for like it to week, three week,
or one month.
A lot of the reason we cannot go down.
Weather or the,
comment it activity underground.
I bet, you know, like it the,
when we went out the mission, everybody know,
even the Pentagon or even, you know,
that the, you know,
here corner, Asia, it's course in Saigon,
the Noisia.
I don't know, whatever.
We have the tattoo on the warehouse.
We work together, I think so.
So that's why, but we can,
I cannot remember how many mission I got to go.
I cannot remember too many.
Because you didn't write the diary.
You couldn't write the diary.
You know, we can do anything.
We can, we can say, hey,
I go there, I go there, I go there.
But when we received the mission,
like it, yeah,
one zero say, hey, we gotta go,
we understand ourselves.
We gotta go DMV,
we know the DMV.
When we gotta go,
we know, we gotta go,
Cambodian, Thailand, and Vietnam,
the border, we know situation from them.
We learn from,
from training,
from the North,
move it to the South.
They got so many secret zone from the,
from the communist.
And we know when they move from the North
to the South,
how are they working on it?
How people,
where are they to have it?
Like a root shock,
like a web gear,
who got it, like a hundred pounds,
or more than a hundred pounds, right?
Some sort of, yes, close to it, yes.
But the communist,
they don't wear anything.
Yes, AK 47 and AK Vs.
Because they live in there,
they don't need food,
they don't need carrot water,
they don't need carrot food with them.
Because they live in there,
like in my house.
We came down there,
we carried it to heavy.
Then we learned from them,
we know how their activity,
but I'll stop it,
and protect this guy.
He told big,
and we,
we easy to move,
and we easy to understand them.
But he from here,
he came to Vietnam.
In the jungle,
he can't do anything.
Young and dumb.
But, you know,
they good.
Good modern house.
So they smile,
modern house.
We learned from the Vietnamese.
So on this mission on October 5th,
the helicopter puts you guys on the ground.
You're getting shot at before you land.
One of the helicopters then
get shot up and crashes.
And the 100 says we're still going.
Correct.
Yes.
When we came down to the foot shopper,
it made me,
Jim Strong,
and I'm not a two Vietnamese.
We got to go and now you got it.
We came down to the communist way.
We dropped out through the ground.
They shoot it up.
And we are not surprised about it.
Because we understand the situation.
Did you see the flag that was flying?
Yes.
Yeah, and VFlag.
Oh, there's an NVA flag.
Yeah.
That has to be a little bit of a warning sign.
That's why Lynn argued with the ones zero saying
that flag is at least 3000 people here and we're nine.
Like it, the flag according from the flag,
we can make it out like it.
Not division like it.
Reaching like a 3000 guy on the ground.
We understand that 3000.
Dooku.
We understand Booku.
Yeah.
Then Lynn Black tried to get down.
They got shot.
Then Kingby, leap up.
And another Kingby, they got a Tateko from the chopper.
Then this way, down this way, down this way,
and shoot another place to make it difficult
to, for communist adjustment where we're going down.
Right.
And then another chopper.
And it's dirty for it.
But now drop it out.
Press that's crash.
But you know, we have on the ground,
have up the chopper.
What you're going to do.
We got to go.
And then Lynn Black drop down.
When we drop out, you know,
that a plain algae, we got to move to the jungle right way to hide.
And we got a very quick briefing.
So you're going to do it next.
According from the pack walking up the,
a couple of walkers was flying.
Okay.
When they did the insertion.
And we got a briefing with him.
The pack walking, saying,
if the team wasn't going to act,
an attraction, you have a ride to do it.
But Jim's ride, the big guy, the one zero said,
no, you say no.
Going, he thought, you know,
we were strong.
But he forgot to understand that.
Not in there.
3000 guy there.
Mm-hmm.
And not our homeland.
They're the communist land.
They're the layers.
Yes.
Yeah.
So you continue to march.
That's what he said.
And then Limbrake told me,
let's go.
We should go back.
And he said.
And then we go.
Yeah, that was the last wrong decision he made in his life.
Yes.
And we moved, but like,
15 feet.
We show, you know, the postcard from the communist.
Limbrake forget to tell you,
we found the AK47 magazine.
Really?
Yeah.
And then we found, you know, the rain course.
Also right?
Yeah, from the, from the, from the, from the communist.
Yes.
And the tree, they let the shitter.
Yeah.
And the, you know, the, you know, the,
They were sitting there watching.
Yet they, she'd have for the postcard from the communist.
As an LZ watch stand.
Ah, the water.
They had a lot of those set up with different LZs.
They were, because there's only so many in layers at that point.
So they had LZ watchers.
And they had some that were beginning to get platforms.
And that's one of the first ones.
And I forgot about.
Yes.
You've, you've, you've, you've had about.
And the last one is what he's talking about.
They saw, so addition, they knew that they were compromised, but it gunfire.
They saw the platform.
So he had to go back and yet the ones zero said go down the trail.
Great to have them.
The, uh, communist, uh, half.
Pith hell.
Yes.
Did the, so what was the one zero's background right now?
Like in this operation.
He had come from Germany.
So he's been assigned to Germany.
He had state side duty.
But he never been to Vietnam.
He was not familiar with working with our Vietnamese counterparts,
listening to people like cowboy and listening to Lynn.
Lynn had a whole year experience with combat.
And so he was one of these old school guys.
I'm the, I'm the leader.
We're going to do this.
Mm-hmm.
And that was the last bed decision he made in his life.
Took the team into it.
And I still tell him.
Yeah.
And then we're not, you know, going out the trail.
It's your own.
We go by in the jungle.
So when you're down at trail, that big mistake.
Yes.
That never happened.
Would you guys ever have situations where the team would look at the one zero and say, no, we're not doing that?
Well, that's what they have there.
And the one zero overruled them.
And most of the times,
our, we listen to our, our business people, our little people.
And if they said, don't go to the reason.
And that's just the mutual respect we had for them.
Yeah.
Particularly once you're on the ground.
So it's just a matter of the rapport between, this was a new team that come together.
And they just take the experience one zero off who had combat experience.
He had many missions.
That Tim Shawf was the one zero prior.
Because the other person, Jim Stride, was more rank.
They appointed him to team.
And they told Tim to give him another team.
Yeah. This is why when you're in a leadership position, you listen to people.
That's, you listen to your team.
I mean, correct.
This is why there's nothing,
if you're, if you're ego getting away and you say, I'm going to like these people, tell me what to do.
It's like, okay, it doesn't work out well.
You've got to stay humble as a leader.
Yeah.
Any leadership class, if you want to show what you shouldn't do, this is a classic example.
But we don't have a training with him.
No.
Yeah.
We're training, yeah, the other high-vend pass.
Right.
And then you're out of the team.
You have that pre-training mission where they're out of the team for the mission.
But the team was another, with the team.
Oh, okay, there's a different one zero.
Right.
So this is just, this is bad all the way across the board.
And this is the one with a Navy saved,
Yeah.
saved STL of Amin.
Because they're on his training mission.
And they had a lot of, it's an area where you had via Kong and NVA.
But Thailand before.
Thailand and, yeah, and VA.
And so they, they've got into a world of,
trouble there, a world of shit with them on the training mission.
And they drove, and the NVA drove them down to the South China Sea from their high ground.
Because they had higher ground, jobin down, and then, fortunately, had a frequency for the Navy.
And one of the Navy, not a PT boat, but a boat that had two or three 50 calibers on them.
And they came in and picked a team up.
Otherwise, they would have been wiped out.
Right on the training mission.
It's a rough training mission.
It was.
Calgary wasn't happy about that either.
No, I like it because either free, you know.
It can go.
Yeah, now.
Okay.
Fishing.
Let me, let me pick this back up from the book on this mission on October 4th.
So where we left off.
Yeah.
There's, sorry, on October 5th.
Where this left off was the NVA or two rose deep front row firing AK 47.
The second row, the longer nades and firing RPGs.
And then I'm going to pick this back up.
It says another Vietnamese ST Alabama team member was wounded.
The team had to get out of the hole or die in it.
The bold NVA told the ST Alabama members to chew hoi or surrender.
Speaking first in French, English and finally Vietnamese.
ST Alabama's weapons drowned out further chew hoi requests.
The one wanted it.
So they asked you to surrender and you shot at them.
And a chew hoi was a whole program, right?
It was a whole program to get people to switch sides.
Right.
We had a chew hoi and then they knew the program.
So they used the same word surrender.
And ST Alabama ended answered it in fine style.
With the car fift.
One hand, one mega gene.
12.
That answer to them.
Yes, you.
Then it says the one one continued to pray.
So the one one got he kind of lost it a little bit.
Totally.
And he was curled up in a ball.
He was putting his face in the sand and he was trying to pray.
I can't tell.
Got it.
Because he owned my team.
He was on my team.
I need to protect him.
He needed to protect me.
Yeah.
He owned my team.
Well, it says here, black couldn't believe it.
Then black says this is no time to pray.
Do unto others before they do unto you.
He yelled.
Whether or not the NVA soldiers were praying.
They continued to move around ST Alabama.
Some climbing into trees.
Cowboy and black crawled 15 feet toward them.
Close enough.
So that cowboy heard the NVA commander tell his truth to prepare to charge ST Alabama's position.
They're you actually heard their commander give the order prepared a charge.
That's true.
The commander also told his troops on the long side of the L ambush not to fire.
Black quickly rigged a claymore mine in the direction of the pending charge.
The fearless NVA mounted a charge toward ST Alabama with AK 47's on full automatic.
Black detonated the claymore mine.
It blew a huge hole in the NVA ranks.
Before the smoke cleared ST Alabama ran through the human carnage firing car 15s on full automatic.
And throwing M26 frag grenades while dragging their three wounded team members.
Miraculously ST Alabama made it through the NVA wave of attackers and moved back towards the L'sy leaving their dead behind.
We tried to bring them a wish out of us but we could.
I tried to move up to work the dead man.
AK 47.
I got a move back and I'm plan by going up.
You know the strike.
He took the big guy to be the first guy to whom up.
And I started to plan over and where they should it.
He took the strike body.
And I can feeling his body shape when he hit the bullet.
Wow.
So you're trying to drag his body and his body is getting shot.
Yeah.
I understand exactly when I told them about the last but they never listened to me.
Even there I heard, hey, come in and say ambush.
Don't kill them.
That's being done.
Oh, because they wanted to capture you.
They wanted to capture you.
And then I do it a lot.
So if those either just listen to this cowboy keeps giving the hand signal for hey,
we need to circle up and get out of here.
Get that look.
That's what you give the hands up for whole time.
Get the king bees.
Oh.
And then he never listened to me.
I know. He said go.
He the point man to Vietnamese team leader here.
And Jim Schreik.
I'm back up here.
And then lean black.
Right.
I know that the absmitted now here.
He said go.
You know the rule from the team.
The first man get up.
First step.
Second step.
Dog step.
Another man stand up.
And step two.
Do the boot where the first man is step.
And he stand up.
I saw him because I heard him.
I see.
He said no.
I know it's a time.
But he never listened to me.
And first step he going down.
Then step.
Dog step.
I hear the bullet.
And he down.
I turn around.
I'm not staying there for.
For shape my life.
I got to turn around and then the victory.
I lay there.
And then coming it should again.
Because we've had a close like here to here.
What? Ten feet?
I don't know more than ten feet.
Wow.
No more than ten feet.
The boots.
He lay him down.
Then when I try to move into.
Gathered like it.
S.O.A.
Map.
And then the the team for survival.
Right in his pocket.
Survival.
And the radio.
The air.
That's the way.
Radio.
I try to look how old everything in his body.
Given to lean.
Given to black.
And try to take him out.
I say, hey, stop.
Stry.
It's nothing happened.
What do you do?
I try to clam up.
And they should be again.
I'm lucky.
I'm very lucky because you know he's body.
It's very big.
When they try to move with.
Especially the.
The appointment.
That too.
So what we're going to do.
We can do anything.
But.
When.
Later on.
The team later in here.
The gun, you know, point like it to.
To hit that.
But he let he didn't see it.
Like a here.
He's here.
The AK 47 gun right here.
And the communist.
Up fret.
When he suited.
We got to.
We got to find out way.
Yes.
And then.
Observe vision.
Hey, a case.
47.
Pointed the.
Lock hit.
And see.
And hit.
You're not the.
Lock.
Right.
Point man.
Hit now going down here.
And it should come in and drop out the AK 47 here.
So you never know it.
From here to here.
How do we.
Survive.
And.
Up and in my mind.
We got a.
Training in in in camp.
We say.
One hand connect one magazine.
That's been.
You ever had to get that.
And you have to.
Magazine.
When we throw down.
Hang in there.
We cannot throw it too far.
We told it now.
It's been clear.
Communists around us.
One hanging it.
One magazine.
When we told the gun head to close.
We operate the.
The communist.
Pick up the gun head.
Throw it.
Right.
So that's why we got.
One hanging.
One magazine.
We told the.
And we got a singer start.
Pink pink.
Be sure the comment is.
Keep that head down.
They don't have a timer to looking.
To pick up the gun head.
You don't want to play catch with a hand.
I said one hanging it.
One.
Fucking.
Magazine.
When.
Because we.
I drill in in home.
Right.
And we told the gun head.
Pink.
We got help to get you.
Guys.
Yeah.
Hold it.
That's what he was talking about.
We don't have a.
We.
The communist.
We had.
They don't have a timer to.
Thinking.
What are you going to do.
And then up to my.
My.
Get.
Magazine.
It empty.
He should it up.
Ding.
Think.
How the communist doing nothing.
Can do anything.
And then what we.
We.
Clear our.
And another.
Another wave.
One negative when magazine.
And then.
Like it.
The.
We got a big company.
Because everybody one.
One.
What do you.
What do you hear.
So they.
Scanias.
How we.
How we fighting.
So that's why you know we try to.
And then we.
Be shaped at the time.
Meanwhile.
Go.
Go and back to the book.
Uh.
Covey says.
The king bees had to return to food by to refuel.
No extraction was possible.
For at least two to three hours.
That.
Me.
While the relentless and the relentless and bloodied NVA ran after the spike team.
Black planted a claymore mine with a five second time delay fuse at retavic on the hard charging NVA.
As a smoke cleared and the body parts settled back to the earth.
ST Alabama split in half again and charged through the battered torn ranks the NVA warriors killing any standing enemy.
They counted at least 50 NVA dead.
Again, eerie silence engulfed the team and ST Alabama regrouped.
Just as suddenly a new wave of NVA soldiers rushed the beleaguered team.
ST Alabama had been pushed near the cliff.
It was a thousand feet to the ground if they went over the edge.
Now online ST Alabama charged through the weakest NVA flank killing more enemy soldiers.
So you guys are there's thousand foot cliffs.
There's a thousand foot cliffs that you guys are up against.
And jump off the cliff or go charge.
You may not, but it's happened.
Yeah.
And then so you guys this is an important lesson for people is every time you guys are put into a tough situation.
You go on the attack.
You attack through the flank.
You attack through the ambush.
And right here ST Alabama charged through the weakest NVA flank.
And that was, they did that several times. That's what the NVA, you know, not used to recontains charging.
Yeah.
And that's what saved their lives at that point.
Yeah, that's even though the Vietnam guys that taught us when I was a young seal.
They would say if you get caught in an ambush, you have to attack them.
If you stay there, you're just going to die.
So you have to attack.
Exactly.
If we're not attacked them, they got under the red nobles.
So we're going to attack them and that they're scanning.
We can turn over through them.
Exactly about.
I'm continuing on here.
Something hit black on the side of the head knocking him to his knees.
He was scrambling to get up when the grenade went off.
The last thing he remembered was being slammed into a tree face first in the car 15 handle,
digging into his chest.
So somebody hit him in that head with a grenade.
Yeah, we don't know where that went.
But I'd like you for a minute.
From the China.
It was Chinese hand grenade.
And poorly made.
Yes.
They make it by the machine and by the general in the general.
Was that right?
Oh, there was like a homemade grenade.
Wow.
He thought he was drowning, but then he felt feet kicking him and hand slapping him all over.
It was the team.
They were beating black back into consciousness and pouring water in his face.
He tried to get up, but his legs didn't work.
From the knees down, there were no fatigue pants just surface bleeding.
One of the guys started smearing gelatinized rice on the one-tous legs, arms and chest.
Blacks, web gear, and what was left of his fatigue jacket were lying shredded bloody on the ground.
The car 15 was bent where the barrel meets the receiver and the bolt couldn't be pulled back.
One of the team buried it.
By 0900 word of ST Alabama's precarious position, it spread through fob 1 through FB 1 like wildfire.
Wildfire.
The request were made for an extra assets.
It was now an official Prairie Fire Emergency.
All aircraft were pulled from their missions and sorties to support ST Alabama.
Any gunships attached to saw were summoned to their aid.
The first gunships to arrive were Marine Huyes known as Scarface.
With them was a CH46 of a latter attached for jungle extraction.
When the twin rotor helicopter entered the AO, it was hammered by heavy enemy ground fire.
As were the Marine gunships, green tracers were seen going toward the CH46.
The ground fire became two intense in the Marine chopper had to withdraw and make an emergency landing a camp eagle in the 101st Airborne compound.
Despite this, despite the hit scarface gunships made several passes, expanding all ordinance before returning to base to reload.
King B officers regrouped and prepared to fly back to Louss to extract what was left of ST Alabama.
The S3 asked for volunteers for bright light mission and every recon man and FOB1 volunteered.
ST Idaho was scheduled to insert into the Prairie Fire AO.
The next day, six October because the team was ready to go.
There was some initial discussion about Idaho being the bright light team.
As the day dragged on, however, and the perilous nature of ST Alabama's situation worsened.
The bright light option faded because the original LZ was now too deadly for any helicopter to be
too attempt and extraction.
So you were even asked where you were even one?
Yeah, we were even one zero and that's one point.
Yeah, don't walk along with the ones here.
So you guys are going to go and leg, we'll go now.
Yeah, we're getting ready for our mission on October 6th and then we were already,
and said you guys are ready.
Right, and then they changed them mindly because of all the intense fire and another helicopter got shot down in the process.
Unbelievable day.
So walk in, walk in was the cubby?
Right, they rotated, walk in.
Then when the cubby got low on fuel and spider parks was there,
and he got low on fuel, pat with back.
So they were both the two cubby guys over there because they were really familiar with that target by that time.
So here we go when Watkins, who's the cubby returned at the FOB for the SESNET or refuel.
He told the others that it didn't look good.
He wasn't sure if they'd be able to get them out.
He explained the low sunken area in the LZ, the spotty weather and how smoke from the expanded ordinance hung over the LZ,
making it more difficult to spot the team and to deliver air strikes accurately.
A resupply of ammo grenades, claim our minds, M79 rounds, water bandages, and more fiends,
and more fiend was placed on a king being launched towards STL Abama.
And LOWS, cowboy worked on black slugs.
He told black that the last wave of NVA had continued onto the LZ.
Cowboy and black heard more US Marine, Huey Gunships arrived overhead,
and witnessed the NVA on the LZ open fire hammering the lead aircraft.
Again, the one-one panics cried and shouted skyward.
The Vietnamese team members speaking through cowboy told black that they were going to kill the one-one if he didn't shut up.
Black agreed.
I'll pull the trigger myself.
God forgive you.
The one-one responded tearfully.
You and your god have no place here, black retorted.
Cowboy grabbed a start-up black by the throat and lifted a calf that cruis affixed from his neck,
and shoved his lips to it.
It's the god to have allowed us to get this far, round eye.
Oh.
So this is just a nightmare of a situation.
What are you guys doing on the ground while all this close air support is coming in?
I can tell you the first thing in the air that you know when the black dial,
you know the water in the jungle.
We cannot, you know, wave, right?
But we still pull a whole kind of water to him to make him wake up.
We don't know how situation we'll know the water.
We don't know how we'll know the water in the jungle.
But we still do it because we love him very much.
And the thing, you know, we, I don't know how to tell you.
I don't know how to tell you, but we got a protect by God.
I don't know the time.
The vine intervention.
Yes.
Maybe all that praying helped.
You know, we only pray.
Only, only pray.
I'll to end up the way we go.
I'll not end up the thing in my mind.
We should end up, they should end up.
And then if the god not protect me, not protect.
I'll remember, we not stay here.
That 100% for true.
That's what I told you.
I can't tell you it.
I can't, amazing.
The time he lied, now I'm crying.
I say, hey, black, black, black.
He only, you know, we can't believe.
One one, I cannot tell anything.
He can't do anything to team.
Even, you know, we respect him a lot.
But at the time, what should we do in my mind?
God, protect us.
Please, be out.
We have a no change.
We have nowhere to go.
We can't do anything.
They got a thousand thousand, we only fit we are.
Only seven guys.
We did 200 and three wounded.
I got wounded myself.
I'm 70 and I wounded, black, black wounded.
I'm 70 and I run out the ammo, the bullet.
Almost we use a knife.
But lucky for us.
I mean, we can pick up the AK47 and the water from the communist.
And we still protect.
We can protect us on the ground.
So I can tell you it.
Let me go.
When.
That's all my heart.
Even, you know, gem strives to bike.
Still bike there.
Two or three wind of me.
Bodies still bike there.
We can't do anything.
When we're being up there.
Make me feel, you know, depressed.
I can only to tell you about.
So I don't know why.
My ear and me.
Still alive in here.
I don't know.
That image.
By the way, this isn't even over yet.
This is not even close.
Going back to the book, the sound of the approaching king bees ended the religious debate
as the realities of a surviving ashael hell became center focus.
The able-bodied picked up the wounded and moved toward the LZ.
Spider, the covey rider at the time, told black that the first king bee was en route to the LZ.
But they planned to work the area surrounding ST Alabama with tactile air support first.
In this case, an F4 fanom jet pilot told black to key your handset for 10 seconds and put your head in the dirt.
Black acknowledges his radio transmission and told his teammates to put their heads down.
As he looked into the sun, he observed the slowest moving full-flap fanom he had ever seen.
The glide path ratio was critical.
Seconds later, he saw the tree line across the LZ explode into sheets of white yellow and orange flames,
setting the jungle on fire with napalm.
The ship banked sharply appearing to stand its wing tips on the ground.
The pilot cranked the burners, dropped down into the valley below,
and then began a vertical climb.
NVA small alarms opened up on all sides of the valley.
The F4 took numerous hits on its armor-plated underbelly.
Among those shooting at the fast mover were several NVA troops about 20 feet from ST Alabama's perimeter.
As the napalm torts the jungle, dozens of NVA soldiers scurried into the open field to escape the instant inferno that it engulfed their comrades.
As a second gen, rolled in for a gun run, the NVA initiated what they called getting close to the belt.
In this case, the NVA soldiers moved toward or outright charged ST Alabama to get as close to the team members as possible to avoid being hammered or burnt by the Air Force Marines or Army Air Ordnance.
Firing on single shot, ST Alabama picked off each of them as they came out of the burning jungle.
The fanom's returned with two cannon and many gun runs along the team's perimeter.
Before the dust settled, the Vietnamese team later fell, team leader fell and cowboy crawled out and recovered several AK-47s and precious ammunition from the dead enemy soldiers.
As their car 15 ammo was dwindling to a few precious rounds.
So you're crawling out and actually grabbing the enemy weapons and grabbing the enemy ammunition.
From the dead soldiers.
That's the soldier.
The line down there, I pick it up. They live with the other team members.
Because in order to survival, we gotta do it.
We gotta do it. We can't eat the body.
Enemy put up, make the chain back.
To protect our people too.
Use an enemy body to stand back to protect yourselves.
It goes on here. Two of the nine cylinder king bees came chugging up the valley toward ST Alabama.
Black popped a green smoke marker.
The NVA popped a identical smoke marker, confusing the pilots with devastating results.
The first king bee followed the NVA smoke marker and took a direct hit from a rocket which toppled on its side, smashing each rotor blade into the ground.
The approaching ST Alabama team members narrowly mist getting hit with strapped from the crash.
Black cowboy and another team member charged the rocket position, killing the three NVA before a hail of NVA fire drove them back into the team perimeter.
The second H34 hit an outcropping of rock on the western side of the Naule after taking heavy enemy gunfire.
It exploded in fell thousand feet to the valley floor below, taking with it. ST Alabama's resupply.
Nice going black Jack Axe.
Fuck you Kavi hurflyed.
Cowboy told the 1-1 to pray for everyone except black because he was going on the devil's side.
Blueckbrush broke into laughter as Ysdest-Elebamos predicament.
Ammo was desperately low, but blood trails look like slugslime.
The F4 fandoms had expanded their ordinance, and Kaviy was bledgerent.
His nerves were shot, training and a man's basic survival instinct had completely taken over.
Then the NBA bugles sounded.
So, at this point, this scene you guys are running out of ammo and ammunition.
You got three wounded.
You got two dead.
No, more than two dead.
You're taking enemy weapons off the ground.
You're building a bunker with enemy bodies.
The helicopters finally show up to get you out of there, and they both get shot out of the sky.
Yes.
What do you think your chances are for survival at this point?
Only 10, I can say that.
Got a prototype, us.
No one can.
Even not only to chop wood, now we got a large up support up the air.
Like a phantom, like a skyder, like a CH, a 50-3 Charlie Green Giant.
We can see the bird.
It's over the air.
It's not only to allow.
So you can actually see your air support, their flying around, their dropping bombs, their
dropping napalm, but it doesn't really help.
I mean, the fact that you guys are on the ground, even though you can see them.
Yes.
I can see it.
And then enemy voyage scanning.
And then we on the ground, we can point.
Skyder, bomb is in there.
And then they vanish scanning.
That's why we survived.
Another region that.
In this day, God came in the form of closer support.
Absolutely.
They won.
Skyder is our next stone.
You can cheat it.
Keep your fucking net down.
Yes, me.
Bomb net to me.
Because they upstairs.
They know what's where we are.
In the hat, you got a piano.
We turn over.
We shot the amp-lanken sheet where we were.
We used to do the same thing.
Yes.
Was that right?
That was another thing that we had known guys taught us inside of our floppy hat.
We had so an air panel in there.
So you can flip it over and let the helicopters or gunships know where we were.
I should have worn a floppy hat.
What were you wearing?
My little bandana.
You're too cool for the floppy hat, huh?
I'm sure you got a bucket.
Yeah, we have a hat.
Yeah, I've seen China hat.
We got a char.
The panel.
The communist, they don't know anything about.
And then exactly bomb to the enemy.
And that's a little black.
It was on the radio running.
All the gun runs and all the weapons.
Like right there, they say, hey, now club.
But 200 feet bomb it there all your way through.
And I want to hit you, I say 12 club.
Five feet.
And that to me, yes.
Yes.
We can control the airplane, become the pad and pet walking and spider.
Put a cover, yes.
And they're able to give them the control.
We control.
We control everything.
But the people outside say, how do we
survive them?
It's easy to survive them.
Because we there, we showed the bomb.
Because like you said, you read earlier in the story, they
declared a prayer fire emergency.
So when the first ones out of Marines, Scarface, when they
expanded, then the F1s came in, then the A1s
skybreters.
And then later we had Army, the judging executioner.
They came out.
Yeah, we understand that check the communist, you know,
very afraid to airplane, even to get a big gun or they got
a tank.
They very scanning.
Yeah, they have two, seven, five rockets, we're
any gun.
We underground.
They want to kill us.
Very difficult.
And they want to kill us because they are afraid of
you know, they're the area that they tried by the bomb.
We there, we're not authorized to shoot the people.
But we can call a plan, even at night or day.
We got a communication with the air, right?
Yes, we got a moon beam.
Moon beam at night.
And then green board.
Stay airborne.
Come to airborne command.
So for all of us out these days, you said they would fly
over and they would do common checks at night, which is
the moon beam, during the day would be Hillsboro.
They stay close and support their way above all the
activity with the cover and the fast movers.
So that's one other level of communication.
So if anything dropped off, like the cover is
we're in between, they can still talk the Hillsboro.
And then still direct the gun.
She had to talk directly to the gun.
She had to go to a helicopter crew.
And Lynn did all that.
Which shot?
We got it. You know, they shoot them.
Winner stand exactly.
So we're not afraid.
We only small group.
They can't find us.
But they got big group.
Hey, you there.
You got a big tan.
Thank you.
Hello.
How you doing?
Bye.
Well, I'll tell you a speaking of communications.
I can't imagine a more horrific sound
here than the sound of the bugles from the communists
getting ready to attack.
That's not to be a nightmare.
You know, we, we come there.
There, their house.
They're afraid to Detroit their house.
So we want to, they want to kill us.
It's not easy.
Not going to be easy.
Because we learn the last.
We're training a lot.
We know when, when we came out there,
we got a bit fined.
How many enemy underground?
Where we can hide and where we can put the top.
I mean, am 14, my two powers.
Yeah, top up, where we can put it play more money.
We can put it, yeah, she for.
And we know situation underground.
We know everywhere, especially we got a spirit in the jungle.
And you American, you know, situation, you know,
not like with the American, and Vietnamese, or whatever,
I'm no, I'm better than the people from the north.
So we understand exactly when they're moving.
I look in the jungle, I look in the mountain.
And I can see it.
Where are they?
In that way, you could help Lynne Black,
direct the air strikes, or you saw the most enemy activity.
Right here, by the way, day by day, we got a spirit.
I'm not too good, but with my spirit,
I can look and up the jungle.
The mountain here, like I can say, hey, I'm right here.
Say, hey, Black, we down here.
I drift the location for him.
And then that is where it is.
But then after the bugles blue, then things got ugly again.
Yeah, here.
But then you had your walls built.
Yeah, let me pick it up.
So the NVA bugles sounded waves of NVA troops carrying SKS
is with fixed bayonets advanced on STL Abama.
When they were 15 feet away, STL Abama opened fire.
The semi-automatic SKS is where no match for the fully automatic firepower of the spike team.
After the first burst of full automatic fire, the team went to single shot.
It was another turkey shoot without a word, a look, or a plan acting solely on instinct.
All of them.
Except the one one, scurried forward and dragged back dead NVA placing the bodies in a circle
around them and stacking them high.
The deadly skirmish and continued for several hours
before Kavie told Black that more gunships and five jolly green giants with heavily armored
secorceky HH3Es were en route.
Blackjack Kavie, what you're up against is the regiment you are sent to find over.
And Blackjack replies, is that all?
Only 3,000 of the bastards?
Well, I think we made a dent in them.
Who's winning?
They are Kavie responded.
As Blackfinished his combo, he saw sight he would never forget.
The NVA formed a front line of NVA troops, who were firing their AK-47s.
Behind them were several NVA soldiers swinging fangs made of leather and cloth,
which held 3-5 hand grenades each.
With a jerk of their collective wrists, the NVA hurlers launched more than 2 dozen communist
manufactured grenades at ST Alabama.
The sky was full of grenades.
Fortunately, they weren't US grenades.
They hit the ground and threw dirt smoke and dust all over the place.
ST Alabama looked up just as the AKs started again.
And behind them, the fangs whirling overhead like helicopter blades.
When the AKs stopped, the grenades were released.
ST Alabama fired.
More grenades were released.
Alabama threw some back.
ST Alabama was caught in a deadly version of the kid game pop goes the weasel.
The AK-47s continued to roar. Alabama ducked. The grenades were launched.
Alabama rocked. Catch duck, throw duck, catch throw.
The NVA advanced.
Grnage, shrapnel, several severed the antenna of the PRC-25 radio.
He quickly black quickly rigged an impromptu antenna from wire.
The relentless NVA continued to advance inch by bloody inch.
Cowboy took two Vietnamese team members over the Knaver Wald perimeter,
seeking to get another line of fire to direct at the advancing NVA.
The advance continued despite firing from black and the remaining Vietnamese team members.
The NVA were now merely feet away from the perimeter.
She's.
Do you believe it?
I can't believe you're sitting here talking to me.
Really, even now.
Yeah. She's.
Throwing bunches of grenades.
That's just a horror show.
That's crazy.
That's the first time we ever saw that, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
A new tactic.
We live in here.
They here.
Here the bell is going down here.
The twisting we at the top.
So there's a little ridge line.
Yes.
And they're on one side of the ridge line.
You're on the other side of the ridge line.
And then they shoot up.
We're going down here.
We move to, you know, we got a high in here, the cover, Earth.
And the net troll here.
So they're throwing grenades over the ridge line,
ideas.
And then as you, as I say, the common is it not training well.
So if you know, they do a good at that.
Put it down.
Come in here.
One, two, three, four.
They troll it.
We got to die everybody.
But they just pulled the pin and they just pulled the pin and then troll it.
They didn't cook them at all.
Yes.
And we have a time.
We have a time with two pick it up.
And troll it back.
Because they are not well-training.
But with those, hang an edit, put it out.
Come in.
One, two, three.
And troll it.
When the pick it up, it can be a blow it out.
That's why we can succeed at it.
Come in.
It's not well-training.
Or whatever they're not training at all.
They just know, put it out and troll it.
That's why we...
Lucky for you.
Yeah.
We still survive.
Oh.
The people that they don't understand, they say, hey,
the guy is liar.
No.
It's not a liar.
But they're training.
It's not not not well.
Not good.
So that's why we...
We here, liar.
Yeah.
It's likely good.
Going back to the book at the last moment with the NVA,
a few body lengths away from the perimeter.
Two Huey gunships from the AmeriCorps Division.
176 aviation company, the minute men,
muskets of the 36 Charlie arrived.
The UH-1B pilots were codenamed the judge and the executioner.
They roared into battle first with a mini gun blast,
followed seconds later with several 2.75 millimeter rockets
placed in the NVA ranks.
Alabama was saved,
definitely for a little while.
The NVA backed off for a few moments,
briefly looking their collective wounds.
Although they were far from whipped.
New assault lines of the NVA troops formed.
Before the NVA opened fire on ST Alabama, however,
the executioner confronted the NVA head on.
With both doorgunners blazing away with their handheld M60
machine guns, he hovered inches off the ground
between the team and the front of the NVA.
And skipped several 2.75 millimeter rockets
off the ground into the NVA.
Before the bleeding startled NVA could respond,
the pilot lifted the old UH-1B models'
gunship over the tree line and ducked down into the canyon,
regaining enough airspeed to return for another pass
at the ST Alabama perimeter.
Before ST Alabama could celebrate,
the NVA charged again.
Three more dead NVA were added to the cadaver wall.
Silence dominated the battlefield.
No bird chirps, no speaking, no noise of any type.
Even the aircraft over the scene had flown far enough away
that their absence amplified the MTR.
The one-one who hadn't fired a single shock continued to pray.
Black patched up a bleeding cowboy.
He gave him some morphine before bandaging a wound on the right side,
on his right side from an AK-47 round.
Where's John Wayne when you need him?
Cowboy asked.
The other's laughed.
Chuhoy Duma.
Give up mother fuckers an enemy soldier yelled.
Another NVA told Black to chew,
hoi in English.
Black flipped in the bird as a sniper,
sniper shot, Alabama's tail gunner.
Quang, Zerite Quang, Quang, Quang in the crotch,
heating an artery as though a pride direct
pressure pressure quang's wound, an A1E,
skyrader lumbered into the AO,
flown by pilot code named Snoopy.
He roared in from Black's left,
brushing the tree tops, full flaps, working his throttle.
The aircraft was so close to the team that Black could hear the distinctive
metallic click-click of the Napalm canisters,
being released from the old Korean war era plane.
The skyrader appeared to be falling, but it actually slipped
down into the valley to escape NVA gunfire.
As the America-UH-1B gunships and fast movers had maneuvered
earlier in the day, his wingman appeared as he flew,
and he as he flew over the team,
they could hear the nuts and bolts of God knows what,
creaking and groaning as he saw the salvo, the rockets.
The NVA were pissed.
Again, the hot shell casings from the airborne warships
rain down on ST Alabama.
Where's John Wayne when you need him?
Great lines.
Oh, did you got shot with AK?
Yes.
Do you want to see Scar?
No, I'll take your word for it, sir.
He's got so many scars.
Many scars.
Yeah, it's crazy to think you're so close to these guys
that you're talking to him.
You're yelling out too, boy, chew, hoe, do-ma.
Oh, yeah.
God.
They are the way you call it.
They what?
The kind of an enemy?
One of the way chew a hoe.
Get the fuck in.
Thank you.
Then three small mortars opened fire.
Black knew there was no way in hell any of the teams could catch the mortars and throw them back.
He and the Vietnamese team leader fell rolled over the cadaver wall toward the mortars cautiously
picking their way through the charred NVA bodies and carnage from the previous airborne assaults.
They moved into the jungle within 20 feet of them first mortar tube,
pho-jue of plan in the ground.
He would hit tube one, black would hit tube three and they'd combine on take tube two.
After the mortarmen launched three salvos, pho-opened on his target while black attacked his target
tube and several NVA, several nearby NVA soldiers.
The survivors chased black in the confusion the NVA opened fire on each other as black
headed toward two one with NVA soldiers still chasing him where pho was pinned down.
Black threw a hand grenade and killed at least three NVA with a blast of gunfire to free pho.
They turned on the NVA chasing black and dealt with them.
Then he and pho wiped out the NVA at the second tube before they quickly returned to the team,
all while picking up ammo and loaded AK-47 magazines from dead or wounded NVA soldiers.
By now, walkings had returned to flying, cover writer above ST Alabamaer.
Spider had called the US Air Force 37th Air Rescue and Recovery Group and denanged to attempt to
rescue the rest of SKU ST Alabama. During the Vietnam War, when pilots were shot down in the north
Vietnam were lost and all else failed, the jolly-green giants were called.
The Sircorske H.H. 3E weighed 22,000 pounds loaded and had two general electric T-58 GE-5 Turbo
shaft, 1500 horsepower engines, extra armament and firepower and they were manned by remarkable
Air Force pilots and crews. The first heavily armored jolly-green giant codenamed JG-28
started its descent to the LZ from 4,000 feet. As it approached, the JG crew was looking for an
orange panel on the southeast side of the LZ. However, as the aircraft was about to touch down,
crew members noticed the second panel. The NVA had an identical panel. The momentary pause was
nearly fatal for JG-28 as the NVA opened fire on it from several sides, the heavy gunfire
severed the main fuel line, causing a massive fuel leak inside the helicopter.
JG-28 had to withdraw from the LZ. In a matter of seconds, there were two or three inches of aviation
fuel on the aircraft's cabin floor. The fumes temporarily blinded the crew members. The pilot
was able to stabilize and returned to denying. As JG-10 hovered a safe distance away from the LZ,
walk-consdirected a few more air strikes around ST Alabama with the hope that the Communist soldiers
would put their heads down long enough for the team to get out. After a few years, air strikes
JG-10 piloted by Air Force Major Vernon Sam Grineer was called to attempt the extraction.
For Grineer, this was his first assignment in the Prairie Fire AL was a Jolly Green Giant pilot.
Way, welcome to Grunt welcome to Prairie Fire. Oh yeah. When the call from Kovie came,
Grineer knew that there were two U.S. Green berets on the ground with their via-to-meast
team members and that the majority of the team was wounded. He didn't hesitate. Grineer piloted
the Jolly Green Giant toward the LZ. Unlike JG-28 Grineer, new which side of the LZ ST Alabama was
on. As he approached the LZ, NVA gunfire again reached a deafening roar, despite ST Alabama
directing firepower at the Communist soldiers. As Grineer began to hover over the LZ, JG-10 was hammered
by enemy gunfire. His crew chief reported that one NVA round had torus six inch hole through
the floor. The round apparently slammed into one of the engines. Both engine warning lights went
on. Both engines were on fire. Grineer did a 180 degree turn and moved to damage air craft away
from the deadly enemy fire and away from the team, struggling to keep an airborne, calling upon
all the training he had received to continue flying. Both crew members continued firing the
machine guns as Grineer battled to keep the ship in the air. Time ran out for JG-10. After traveling
several hundred yards, Grineer warned his crew to brace themselves for a crash landing. Both crew
members continued firing their weapons until the burning HH-3E slammed into the jungle.
ST Alabama was stunned. Covey and all the men flying over the target area viewed the
horror and grim silence. What's that four helicopters have gone down now? Five? Including the first,
the first one on insert? Four. Four. Four. The men back at FOB one monitored the radio transmissions
on their PRC 25s as Covey talked to black. Spike Team Alabama's radio signal was too weak to
hear any response. The word spread through camp that the latest horrific turn of events
surrounding ST Alabama, the usual hustle bustle of a Saturday at FOB one was replaced by quiet
hush tones as the entire compound feared the worst, but continued to pray for the men of ST Alabama.
Word of a proposed arc light mission reinforced the gravity of ST Alabama's situation, and
arc light was a strike by a B-52 bomber from more than 25,000 feet. Back in Louss, the stunned
members of ST Alabama returned to their cadaver perimeter once again nearly out of ammo.
One one was facing down, met her muttering, the Lord is my shepherd, one of the Vietnamese went
about collecting AK-47's in ammo from the dead NVA as spider-and-walkins directed more airstrikes
around the team. Within 10 to 15 minutes after green years burning HH-3 crashed into the jungle,
Covey learned that there were two survivors from the Jolly Green Giant and asked ST Alabama
if they could locate the remaining crew members. Grineer had broken his back, but somehow pulled
himself from the burning helicopter. The other Jolly Green Giant survivor, Sergeant Ernest Dean Kasbier,
had been thrown clear of the crash, neither knew the location of the other. Walkins told Black
where the Air Force survivors were, and that they'd run a daisy chain between his position
and the men, hopefully to clear the area enough for the team to get to both of his survivors. The
NVA threw one more curve at ST Alabama when Black tried to talk to Covey, he found the primary
secondary and alternate FM frequencies jammed by the NVA. Frustrated Black smashed the PRC 25 and pulled
out as URC 10 high frequency survival radio. He was told an arc light strike was being planned
for this area as soon as possible. By now all air assets, Navy Marine and Air Force, which had
been scheduled to fly Swords in the North Vietnam, were diverted to the Prairie Fire Emergency
surrounding ST Alabama. Covey directed numerous air strikes, including more gun and rocket runs
from helicopter gunships, Scarface and Hughies from the Marine Light Helicopter Squadron 367
returned to make several runs after refueling and reloading and food by the minute-men
muskets returned to wreak havoc on the persistent NVA troops. They pounded the jungle area between
ST Alabama and Air Force survivors. Around 1800, a jolly green pilot, Air Force major, Don Olson
called over the radio. Blackjack, JG32 over, parked down in the draw, draw in the trees from you.
You have 20 minutes of fuel before I leave. The first person we must see is an American.
Hurray, we're taking heavy ground fire. Sheesh. So now it's six o'clock at night. You've been there
all day on the ground. Four helicopters down. You've got two survivors that you're going to
try and link up with. And the jolly green just came down to the jungle and hovered in the jungle
just to just waiting there. Lower his profile and to wait. Yeah, it's a counter-intuitive thing
that when you're in an aircraft and you're in a helicopter or a plane, when you're up higher,
it makes you an easier target. It's better to get low where the enemy can't see you.
So I know it's it might not make sense. People might think, oh, it'd be better to go up,
but it's actually in a lot of cases better to go down. And that's what this guy's doing.
Anything that couldn't be carried was thrown over the side of the cliff.
As quickly as the wounded could move, they headed toward the jolly green giant. Could you guys
hear the helicopter? Did you know where it was? Yes. So you could hear it and you're like, okay,
we got to go for it. Yes. The chopper had literally cut away the treetops and branches to
nestle into the thick, dark green foliage thus reducing its profile to enemy gunners. Also,
and had to keep the aircraft stable as they were large trees on all sides of the aircraft. The
trees were large enough that they could severely damage the five rotor blades and cause the
trapper troper to crash if the any of them got hit. Covey directed more air strikes in a
daisy chain fashion in the portion of jungle between STE, Alabama and the hovering jolly green
giant. Walkins hope this would drive out or kill NVA in the zone. Even that task became more
difficult as smoke from all the ordinance continued to hang over the trees, decreasing the visibility
for pilots and helicopter gunners. As they move toward the how hovering helicopter, STE, Alabama,
entered a cool ravine before climbing a final hill to the chopper. There they encountered a
village with hooches built on 10 foot stilts, complete with large pots cooking rice and vegetables.
Instead of NVA troops, black found an American taking food from one of the pots, he was the
flight engineer, Sergeant Ernest Dean Kasbeer, one of the two Air Force survivors from the
crashed helicopter, soon they found Grenier who assisted in directing the hovering jolly green
to this area in the jungle despite his broken back. You want to talk about miracles?
Yeah. Randomly run it into these guys and the village in the village.
Jeez. But we know we knew it too guys too survival. Yeah, you knew that you had
to look for. Yeah. LG at the here, the jolly green planet dropped down here at
Crest. We run from here or the way down here. You know the communist house around here.
We got a difficult time to join with them. So that's why we take you know very crazy decision.
We go or we go faster or we go slowly or we go you know the by another way to get in
to join with them. From from from the here to the Crest, it very difficult time of us.
But we gotta do it. You know like it 18 up low, right, a little bit down. So it's starting to get dark
and blood and Angle keep on saying hey, we stay here for overnight. But I thought in my mind,
if I stay overnight, I gotta die because my blitting in the back, everyone is thinking in my body.
I say let me join first and I run to but we gotta cut to escape from here to the Crest.
I say go it fight and go and you're gonna to go and this fought thing thing and then I run.
So you just kind of went for it. Yes. And then they were you trying to get to where the hell
a copter was and you were just going to go by yourself because otherwise you were going to bleed out.
Yes. At what point did the rest of the team decide to go with you? Which you made it? They stayed there.
I'm the Pymon to open the like the Broadway to let it, I'm die. It the team got it to be the shape.
If I run to and then when I get there I gotta shoot by team and a team run.
Okay, so you're gonna they were covering for you and then when you got there you covered for them. Yes.
When I run there I say hey I show the chop to there and I stay there I say go.
When we don't have a radio but when I shot it the people understand I'm safety and then
quang they got to run to my way we rejoin there with the hell you got to sign.
We understand if I'm stay overnight I gotta die because they're bleeding. Sure.
And then anyway I gotta I die let try the try to looking for the way for survival. Right.
So you you didn't you were either gonna die trying to run there or you're gonna die stay in their overnight.
Yes. So you might as well eat a way eat a thing I gotta die.
You know I'm staying there and you already had died what three times four times at this point you're career.
You know how do we here we still you know understand we training well we training good
and then we worked together really good if I'm running if quang and black or whatever
can protect me. They give you cover yeah cover fire. I gotta die in my way.
And the NBA wasn't used to you guys running. Yes. They didn't expect it. No.
Again they just before they charged through the rank several times and in this one here he's running
and then the others followed. Another one didn't think things right there. And you're firing with
the AK 47's by now. So that way the NBA baby wouldn't be so alert if they heard
car 15s that would come quickly for the car 15s but hearing AK maybe they weren't sure
that may have helped us. We still haven't one or two a half 15 really? You know we
get you know the way the 15 the the form. Yes we put we take it the uniform up the
Ampchik team. Yes we put it in in Capitine. Leave for a child.
For a different sound. Leave for a child. Okay. Yeah. Leave for a child. So when I saw that
bad like it they're like a machine gun right by the 15 that the long one they're in. Yes.
Very small but when we suited by the I don't know how to call it you know the
form is the it's the flash on the yes. Yes. So it's the different 15. It was about two inches.
Yeah. They had the early M16. Okay. Three prong. Yes. Yes. We said very early M16 with a three prong.
They changed the flash. It was time to have a 3 before. It's so different sound. Very different sound.
Yeah. Very different sound. Yeah. Leave you know the common one more thing that saved you.
Yeah. One more thing. You're running. You're bleeding and you're firing car 15s but different sound
along with the AKs and they knew that and then they followed me and then the time I said follow me
I got big big. You're just single shots. Yeah. If you pull it full automatic you don't have a good enough
you know the ammo. So the big we count maybe we can play game with them. One, two, three.
Pin one, two, three. Pin, pin. Sometimes. And then they scan it. If you force you know the automatic
it they say hey that's guy. No experience in the walls and amateur. Yes. And easy to run out of the
ammo. Yeah. Pin. Not pin, pin, pin, pin, pin. Different different way different sound. So they know the
the people with the enemy. They understand exactly those guys how how they learning. So according
from the from the training good doing well we're doing good very good. So any situation anywhere
and anytime training counts. Yes. So just you know just let the people understand it in the army.
Now you've had a look. You've had a train. Don't be don't say hey I'm hero I'm hero. I'm the big guy.
No. No. We need to training always training all the way. Learn from each other. If Gemstriy
he listened to me he said hey how do we get out and that easy right?
For the chopper. I need an exception. And then we shape the every body. But anyways get back to here
where you are now. Yes sir. Yeah. Well where we are right now is back to the book the NVA focused
heavily on the chopper. Easing the pressure on ST Alabama as they near the Jolly Green. Black thought
it felt like they were moving closer to the gates of hell itself. The NVA were pouring small arms
fire and RPGs at the hovering ship. All the door gunners and pilots intermittently fired the
mini gun. M79's and M60's and the helicopter gun ships and sky racer skyrators made gun runs around
it. Time was against them. The weather was beginning to close in. The smoke from previous air
strikes hung over the area for longer and longer periods of time before clearing enough for the next
attack from the air. On the ground the manifesti Alabama heard an NVA running through the bushes
around them. Fortunately the NVA failed to spot the spike team or the Air Force crewman.
Dis desperate. Black had to move his team onto a trail so it could move to the hovering
helicopter more quickly. As the team moved up the trail the tail gunner was shaking violently
and had turned a pasty white. Team members set quang down and proceeded to the aircraft.
At the crest of the hill they saw the helicopter taking hits and dealing out of its own. The M60
was red hot. Black saw someone firing at M60 and out of one of the windows.
As Black moved to the chopper the intensity of the gun fire seemed to multiply. The air was so
full of lead he could see it. Few little bits of metal skin fell from the aircraft as they reached
its underside. The jungle penetrators smashed to the ground next to him and raised three feet
before he could put three team members on the first load. Grineer the Air Force flight engineer
and the wounded ST Alabama team member were second were on the second. The wounded Vietnamese
became entangled in jungle vines and while he was being hoisted upward the Air Force
the operator had to stop the hoist lower it and give him enough time to untangle himself.
When the hoist moved up toward the aircraft the Vietnamese was not sitting in the seat but hanging
on with assistance from Air Force Sergeant Kasbir despite the NVA gunfire black ran back to the
bamboo thicket where he had left the remainder of the team. Quang the dying tail gunner pointed
his 45 caliber pistol at the advancing NVA and said toy kit I die. He motioned Black to return
to the helicopter before shooting himself. Black was running back to the ship when two NVA
stepped onto the trail and pointed their AK-47s at him. Two holy one of the soldiers shouted
Black stretched out his arms and continued walking towards them. When he was only a few feet away
he said two holy. The young NVA soldiers appeared surprised before they could react black grabbed the
AK-47s by their searing barrels and stripped them from their soldiers. He backhanded the soldier
on his right and smashed the other soldier in the face with one of the weapons. He left the stun
soldiers lying there as he sprinted the chopper where he found the praying one-one. The rest of the
team was on board firing any weapon they could get their hands on. As the jungle penetrated
lift black and the one-one upward they were shoured with hot spent casings from the M60 and other
weapons being fired from inside the aircraft. The entire team fired out the windows and from the
back door as the overloaded helicopter began to lift out of the jungle. Major Olson told Kovie
he was at maximum power. As the jolly green giant slowly rose, Black felt the ship making
upward surges from B-40 rocket slamming into the armor plate and underside of the aircraft.
It felt like it was a giant, it felt like a giant slugging the ship in the stomach, boosting it
upward with each rocket blast. From his view above the fray, rockets couldn't believe the bird
kept flying. Somehow the pilot got the jolly green giant out of there. Once clear of a jungle
hole the ship began its ascend out of the valley and the shadow of death. The door gunner removed
his helmet and placed it on Black's head. The pilot told him we're on our way home.
Not quite. From above, walk and saw the crippled ship catch fire and try to make
and try to make it out of the killing zone. It crossed two ridge lines before descending into a clearing
where it crashed landed. Olson had gotten them out of the killing zone but JG32 had flown its
last rescue mission. Everyone except Black and the one-one were transferred to another jolly green
giant piloted by a Coast Guard Exchange pilot, Lieutenant Commander Lonnie Nixon.
Nixon took over 30 hits picking up ST Alabama and others. After everyone, after everyone knew
that Black, the remaining personnel from ST Alabama and the Air Force survivors from JG10 were
cleared from the original target area. They hammered it with everything they had, including more
napalm bombs and gun runs. Captain Hortonus, the pilot of Watkins' FAC plane was so mad at
that he flew the O2 down into small arms range and fired his 2.7 millimeter rockets into the
area where the NVA had knocked down JG10. He and Watkins took a hit to the front and the engine died.
Hortonus somehow got the Skymaster O2 up out of the area and back to FOOBIE. There was no engine
pressure when he landed. A co-bregun ship landed and opened the Armament Compartment doors which
had seat belts attached to them. Black and the one-one buckled up and were soon airborne alongside
the groat jolly green giant returning to Dane. They are flying so fast that Black had to turn
his bloodstained face away in order to breathe. Within minutes he was so cold he was shivering
uncontrollably. The co-brelended at a marine medivax site where the Americans were wrapped in
poncho liners and helicopter to Dane. At the Dane and Firmary, everyone was getting patched up.
When foe saw Black, he raised his right hand and a fist above his head.
Tohoi Duma. He yelled surrender mother fuckers. Man that's a crazy mission.
What do you think just another Dane saw? Absolutely. Maybe just a little bit just a
little bit. That was your life. That's what you did every day or multiple times a month
over and over and over again. The casualty rate for SOG was over 100%.
Correct. So if you were going to SOG, you were going to get wounded probably more than once.
You may be killed obviously. I can't imagine that the survival rate for the Vietnamese that
aren't going back to America. You're just staying in that job for years. I mean, the survival rate
must have been minuscule for you to be standing here as crazy. Absolutely. It's a miracle.
Actually, in our situation, we have no choice. We have no choice. We have to go forward.
Vietnam, Vietnam, it situation in Vietnam war country. If I'm not joined to the army,
I get back home. I cannot survival. I must go with the, I'm not even in the
infantry or local army. Why not we stay with the SOG? We got a lot of upfouring. We got a lot
of money. Better pay. Yeah, we got a lot of power when we go back to town. We were, we were
at an NVAA uniform. Nobody can touch it because we have it. The car.
Ampesty of the OS government. Nobody can touch whatever they want to touch. We got an MP,
military police there to protect us. And we got a gun in the throne. We got a gun pistol in the
bike. Come on. Whatever tank guy, I already got. Have you watched it in a rainbow movie or something?
We did like 100% like him. We got a clay momma in here. We got to go somewhere.
Yeah, we pull over here. Nobody know anything else. Walk around the clay momma in on your chest.
Yeah, yeah. You want to play? Go ahead. Come on, please. Even going to the police station.
Whatever they want to do with us, we joined together with one team, three American and
nine Vietnamese. We went together. Nobody can't stop us. At the time the Quang was in jail.
You had to go get him out of jail. Yeah. Had to break him out of jail. Your Quang got in jail.
Did it? Was it was the resistance from the jail or did they just let you guys take him?
When they realized who you guys were? No, we went there for free. Nobody can stop here.
We ran there. Open there. Clay mormors on your chest. Come on here, please.
And also had a couple of guys who didn't have 60s.
Come on 15, Leia, Hong Kai, they're looking 15. What the hell did you get in there?
Right? Yeah. Nobody know. We got a K-47. If they shoot a clay momma, he got to blow out.
Yeah. Chow. Kwon got out of jail. Kwon got out of jail. He got to get out of jail.
Clay mormors. So he could go on a mission on October 5th. And that's where he died.
Yeah. That's that Kwon. So that's when you had to break him out.
It was before this mission. Before this mission, they broke him out of jail.
She's so basically run down. So basically you were in that job because you guys were the
baddest motherfuckers in Vietnam and you did whatever you wanted to.
Just sure. Even to strong guys. Hey Clay mormors beats a strong guy. All day.
You know, I can count the piece up the the inside. 555 piece.
Ball bearings. I can't count.
So sometimes we play just play the game. Right. Pull it down with she far inside.
We took out the we took out the she far. Yes. I thought they take it out and cook the coffee
stuff. Oh yeah. And then we put it in here. Nobody knows. That the real one or the fact.
This is still science. Yeah. It's good good psychological operations.
When did you uh, because I know you ended up getting wounded badly in your leg.
When did that happen? It happened all the story. Yes. 1971.
And then what happened did you get shot? I guess so. And how did you get out of the,
how did you escape the situation? We don't know underground, but the water in there,
squam in there. And then we get out of, we're looking for with the people asperium like
me. We're looking for the either place and under the tree to stay there. And they want to,
they want to, uh, me to be be out of the room. I mean, they want to catch the team.
They, the first thing they want, the first thing like it, they want a shock like it.
Yeah. You're a smearer. I'll tell you to get a pill. They want to, yeah. They want me to do it.
They want me to, they want, they want to catch me. But we, we, we want to not let them do it.
And, but after that, they want, but they want to catch the team. They don't want to kill the
team. Okay. They say surrender like a chihuahua. And then we answered the, uh, by the
conference in here, the chancho, but they very close to us. They got a bunco around there.
And then they should, they got a good radio before they want to test the team. They got a
cute, the radio man first. Okay. Like it's the French man. He got the radio. They want to
make the contact with the team. They got a cute, the radio man first. And then my
like it, like to the radio. I put, I kicked the radio out. But they should, they're ready to
including my leg. Oh. And maybe two, three down into my leg, they should by RPD.
I get the chancho I know that. Sure. And then I pull out my leg.
That time we just get out there for 10 minutes. And team, I just report to
the Bingham Bingham, just report to the Kovie, say, team safety, team okay. And they can go home.
Bingham was the team leader. Yes. Yeah. They can go home.
Say them and say them Bingham. Yes. And then later on, they got a hit,
right away. And my friend, they carried me out, they called back, they called back to the
chopper, just chopper, come back. But you know, I got it, PFC 68. Oh, later on.
No, PRC 68, the radio. The emergency radio. The PRC 68. That was still around when I came
in till really. Yeah. It was getting phased out. It can replace by the PRC 125. But there was like
one or two of them that you could look at the radio. Yeah. That's a small one.
What's one we got at the York 10? Yeah. Yeah. We got to
go 10. Octangoo can up top. But PRC 68, we can
change the frequency to top. Oh. Okay. That they got to develop the new thing. And then when I turn it on,
you know, when I pull out the, they got to try to be pull me to the Aussie. And then I pull it on.
And then the, the, uh, chopper coming back and stood up to the enemy. And I turn over.
My leg, it really hurts really pain. I throw my, uh, PFC 68 away. I'm dropped somewhere.
And then they thought, I'm dead. We can up to 10 minutes. I cannot, you know, turn off the
PRC 20. That means I am the one dead. And they want to kill. They want to blow out the PRC 68.
They don't want to be PRC 68. To do the enemy. And that's why I should
go. And they should route us by the rocket by the mission on Codding and the NVA thought,
you know, like at the, the chopper know where they are. They move out. They, they, they were scared.
They scan it, they move it out. And I'm free. I'm not free, but you know, I got to safety
decision. And the chopper went down, picked me up. And the foot chopper went down.
I smelled the gas. Because the enemy should up to chopper to the gas tank.
I say get out of the way. I, I cannot shoot because I shoot at the, the chopper that
I've got to burn it out. Yes. And I wait my hand. I say go, go, go, go, go, go. And I talk to
hold the team. I say don't shoot anything. Don't shoot anything. And after that, you know, the,
the pilot, they knew, you know, the gas and spread out. And they let, I don't know what,
and what happened with the chopper. But the second and then now, pick me up. They take me to the,
now, not if you patch it up. And then later on the day, I got inspection. And then Dr.
cut up my leg. So only 20 minutes on the ground. Only 20 minutes when we land out.
But I'm okay now. I'm back. So then what was it like as the war was over in America? It was
leaving in the communist or taking over. I mean, you had to be kind of a marked man being this
former, you know, special operations guy that was working alongside the Americans. They must have
won't define you. That's why I told you that we need to training. Up to, I got to go in it.
I watched him to work with the American embassy. Okay. So after you got willing,
did you want to work at the American embassy? Yes, got it. My station in the now,
that 52, but then US, can't select general one in the now. Until 1975, the day we lost the
long, it, the end of the march in 1975, which my experience with the show, we understand
enemy situation. They fight from not to the show. But I work in the land and at the time, you know, the,
take it the land. I'm a worked the show. I hit a lot of enemy. I contact a lot of, you know,
like the security or police. What are you thinking? They move. They attack from the north to the
south. But I'm from the south, move up to the north. They thought I'm, I'm there, they're friend.
That's why I'm told you, we need to train. So you did the opposite of what they thought you would do.
Yes. You went from the south to the north to the north. Then being,
I'm the people from the north. They're not pay attention about the people from the south to the north.
But if you move from the north to the south, they have a checkpoint. Where you go,
where are you going? Where do you go? Everything to the west, the question, but I'm from the north,
from the south to the north. The reason that my father-in-law, up the way of the Foubaikem,
and then we stayed there until they took over the side gone. We almost crazy. We don't know
where to go. We don't understand situation, but my family in the Sagan and Dalat,
and in Benhor, and up to the south yet now, you know, I use it. Enemy paper work.
I mean, I decir an enemy certificate from the north. By the way,
my relip, my uncle, my something relip, my nephew, up the north,
going to the south to see me. When the first thing we night in 54,
we still have the people living in either north. When they came down, they looked in for us,
because between Sagan and North Vietnam, it's very difficult. Very difficult.
Sagan, it's rich people. And, you know, no like people, but in North Vietnam,
they only, you know, know like by the combination. They limit it with education.
So when they came down to the south to see our family, they don't have nothing, but they still say,
we got a TV over the town, we got a whole got a thing, but they have nothing.
But at the time, they asked for the money, they asked for the gold, they asked for the drink.
That's why I learned from them too. So, I'm not just a only one place. Today, I'm in San Jose tomorrow.
I'm not a law-gencer. Law-gencer, let's, I got a gold energy. And then I got to go,
watch in Tandisi, I got to go, you gotta keep moving. Keep the communist guessing.
Yes. And then I buy something, everything in the communist situation, government, everything
it, not free. Like I want to, I want to feast. I gotta go down to see the Nang or somewhere,
I buy the feast. I took from there, back to San Juan, to sell the supermarket. So I found out
the way, by the way, I'm looking for the way to Escap from Vietnam. They give me some time of
free because they know they knew I was from the shopman, at O. Z for free, the envires,
because they got a gun, but they don't know how to do. So they actually invited you,
the communist invited you to. No, the people in the Shao Vietnam. Oh, South Vietnam. They invited
you to start training them? No. To just do security for them, to do what? To if we
see anything happened in O. Z, I got to shortly come and it just got it. Then I brought back them. And then
until 1986, October, I should say to come to Malaysia. And how did you do that?
My small boat. Yes. And you tried 14 times before the last time I did 15 times.
And what is that? You tried to escape. So you tried to escape 14 times. You were successful
on your 15th time. What were the other methods that you tried to do? Was it always by boat?
By boat. Always by boat. I got to go, I can go by kitchen.
What ever the lounge with my leg? Because I know where the way to go. Right. I know where the way to go.
But my leg. Go west but you couldn't walk. And then what happened when you got to Malaysia?
I be there for wave for the UN. I stayed there. I see the American delegation. And they come to
interview me. And then they take me to the UN at stake. How did they go? How do they confirm
who you are? I have nothing but they got a special interview from the people from the US.
I mean GVI, I mean Joy-Poor and the ETH. When I came there I have nothing. But they asked me.
And I taught my history. They called back here. They called back step to check up.
Right. And after one man they say, hey, you come to US. So they did that pretty fast.
Yes. Because they asked me. They got a group looking for the beer. Whatever MIA. The
asked me the question do I know any American mission in action or as I said, yes. I did. I taught
them. Poking. Came crying. Jim Schrey. These are all people on our teens who got killed.
They got kind of two of their Americans on Alaska when they got wiped out when Jim went
Allen survived. The two Americans were crying in King. I only remember with three.
But they asked me, do you know where the location I said? Yes, I did.
Sure. And they tried to bring me back to the Vietnam to tell them. But they could.
Because at the time I stayed there for a segment for waiting to come back to Vietnam.
But I don't know why they sent me to the Philippines for education training.
I think what kind of education training learning, you know, like for orientation, for how
the American life and the Indian for Sigmund came over here saying something.
And then what was it like when you landed in San Francisco?
1988 something. 1988? Yes. What did you do when you landed? Did you have any family here?
Yes, I got my sister in San Jose and had she escaped from Vietnam already? Yes, 1975.
And how did she escape? Because she got a husband like the Vietnamese pilot.
And the out of Vietnam by the way, you know, the hushman. Wow. So what did you do when you landed?
Just have to start get a job and I mean you couldn't strap a claymord of your chest anymore and walk around town.
Taking what you wanted. My sister, she'd be here to get the 75.
And then she got a few rest days and five guests days. And she was a sail, a co.
When I came, I went for her. Like a family job.
Until I got, you know, like a, I got stroke 15 years ago.
Yeah, 15 years, 17 years ago. I got stroke. And then there's no more, no more job. No more work.
Yeah, and I happened. We all thought cowboy Finney will never see cowboy game. We all heard that.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't think so. I don't think so. I think they can kill cowboy at this point.
Cowboys got a liver ever. So he has a stroke or a bad stroke. But yeah, he's back. My mouth.
I don't know. I was a whole year and I cannot move. But now I'm still okay. But another trouble.
A lot of age and orange. A lot of age and orange. I got a kidney from, I got a dialysis.
Now at home. And you managed somehow to have kids during all this.
You have children. Yes, I do. And how many children do you have?
Totally a 10.
Do you believe it? I don't, I believe anything that you tell me.
Three, three, that in the Vietnam. Okay. So you lost three kids in Vietnam.
We don't, when the newborn, they don't have it, you know, any food. They don't have any, yeah.
I can energy to stay. I treat that. And then when I ask him, with the two of my son,
came over here with me. My wife at the time, it's still like in the Vietnam.
And then I do my paperwork. Home my family here right now. I got fashion and two girls in here with me.
In the United States, me, me. Oh, beautiful. One of the, uh,
Dixet. One of the North Carolina. And three, in here with me. And two of my girl,
one in here with me. And another one that I, I believe Louisiana. And then I have a 16,
no, 11 wrong child. 11 grandchildren. Yes. Wow.
11 little cowboys out there. 11 little cowboys. So you are going to live forever. No doubt.
No doubt. I try my best. I can not tell. Whatever, you know, like it, when I got shot,
my, my wife say, co-nive and one that's saying, hey, don't do it. And then my son say,
co-nive one, when I say, don't do it. I mean, stay. I cannot sit. I cannot love now.
This is when you had your stroke. Yes. You said don't call 911. Yeah. No.
You didn't want to call a prairie fire emergency on that situation. No, I called chopper.
Cocking me. And I, you know, I, who, I, because I have a training when, when I, what
job, I have a training kung fu. I got a training, training yoga. Mm-hmm. And I keep,
you know, I keep my body, you know, free. I keep my mind going. And later about our,
I back to normal, not normal. That time, you know, we cannot, we can, we can use it, you know,
medication. I say, okay, now, co- 911, take me to the doctor. But the time of
our emergency, I learned from my father. He crying when I lost my leg. He said,
he told me why I'm not using the hook. You know, hope, right? Hope, hope,
hope, medication. Hope is the medication. Yes. Not, you know,
use it by the American way, you made a case and they could take people, I'll get shot.
Then, no good. So that's why I am, say, don't call 911. Well, and then I,
survival right now, you see it? I got a lot of trouble. I know, it affected by the war.
You know, sometimes it make me depressed. I got a lot of medication. And, you know,
they spread everything in the Vietnam. H and orange, we came down there. You know that
we were a salt with the water. But we put out the rock, the water in there, we taken out
drink. That's why I got a trauma with my ACE right now. Because the age and orange,
just, well, I'll tell you what. I don't know. We've been going for two and a half hours.
No, till what do we miss? What do we, did I miss anything? Well, the only thing we miss would be,
if we, if you want to talk about the day he was with the Frenchman, that his story
day when a Frenchman got shot in the back for a time. Yeah. If you remember that. Okay. So,
one month later, you guys are on another mission. And I'm going, I'm going back into across the fence.
Here we go. Later in the afternoon, children signal to the team to pull their claim
or minds and prepare to move out. Due to the combined weight of the rock sack and web gear,
let's turn it off. This is the Frenchman. Move to his knees and slung his rock sack on his back.
Just as it landed on his back, AK-47's open fire. Let's turn it off with slam to the ground, face
first, face first. The impact so severe he had fought he had broken his nose. Startled.
L'Aternot jumped up with his car 15 pointing it toward the AK-47 gunfire that was near the front of
the team. Surprised that there were no NVA near him. L'Aternot removed the rock sack to discover that
four AK-47 rounds had ripped through the 23-pound PRC 25. He reached into an especially tailored
pocket on his fatigue shirt, which was sewn with vertical zippers, one of the left of his shirt,
one of the right side, between the top and bottom of the pockets on his shirt and pulled out
his URC 10 emergency radio and broadcast a general alert for any aircraft in the area.
ST Virginia was declaring a prairie fire emergency. Then there was a sudden complete silence.
Eerie silent. Amazed at the quietude, L'Aternot walked to children's who asked him
what he had done with the PRC 25. L'Aternot explained that four rounds had ripped through the radio
and that it was probably useless. Get the fucking radio children's yelled. What if it's working?
We leave it behind for those assholes to use. Stond L'Aternot went back picked up the rocksack and
walked to children's who grabbed the hand said as NVA troops began firing to ask Team Virginia.
And yelled into the radio. We have a fucking prairie fire emergency. Get us the fuck out of here
or our promise will kick your ass all the way back to Saigon. As the firefight raged on,
the remainder of the team was lying down on the ground that they firing at the NVA
white children. While children's in the L'Aternot continued to argue while standing up oblivious to
the AK-47 rounds cracking over their heads. L'Aternot yelled back at children's. It won't work.
While pointing the PRC 25 radio where the antenna had been shot off. No antenna, no commo.
L'Aternot grabbed a spare whip and ten and handed to children who screwed into the radio.
This time children screamed into the radio. We need an ex-film now. I'm declaring a prairie fire
emergency. Is anyone out there? Within a second or two, there was a response. Calm down
children's. I realized your under fire set a cover rider. Just at that moment, several AK-47's
opened fire from the woodline near the log where L'Aternot had been unceremoniously slammed onto his face.
L'Aternot and Cowboy returned fire. Cover your rider continued. We heard your team declare a prairie
prairie fire emergency on guard frequency and I've rallied the cavalry. What's your mark? Do you
have an LZ insight? Before children set a word into the radio, he turned to L'Aternot and said,
see, it works. Suppose we had left it for the NVA. Never. I say again, never, ever leave behind a
radio. As if to emphasize that point, the NVA opened fire again as L'April began looking for an
LZ while moving the team down the hill away from the most concentrated NVA gunfire. Cunning L'Aternot
knows Slack, children's road, tell Covey will give him five, will give him a fix in five minutes.
We'll probably need strings to get out of here. I doubt we can make it down to the valley where
a king be can pick us up. Without missing a beat, L'Aternot, who for the first time felt four burning
stings in his back repeated those words to Covey while he and Cowboy began providing cover fire
as the tail element of the team. L'Aternot then L'Aternot nodded to Cowboy, who ignited several
claymore minds at the team and set out on its perimeter. Those minds only slowed the NVA for a few
seconds before the dust and debris from the blasts had settled, NVA soldiers were moving through it
toward Cowboy and L'Aternot. Without saying a word, the two men took turns firing at the
enemy while moving downhill, rotating E around each other, Cowboy would fire several bursts from
his car 15 and then reload as he reloaded L'Aternot would open fire providing covering fire for the
team. During one short, L'Aternot, Cowboy even planted a claymore mind in the direction of the
advancing NVA and L'Aternot dug out another claymore from his rucksack in place to 10 second
delayed fuse on it. When the NVA advanced again, Cowboy ignited his claymore mind. The NVA moved
towards the team again, L'Aternot ignited his fuse and ran down the hill with Cowboy to catch
up to their team. Before they reach the team, two B-40 Antipersonal rockets slammed into the trees
above them, shouring them with trap-no. A few more exploded as L'Aternot and Cowboy moved down the hill.
Then the 10 second fuse ignited another claymore, it brought Pet Press's time for the gun
and run team of L'Aternot and Cowboy to turn to cover ground and catch up to the remainder of ST
Virginia. As children called in air strikes, L'Aternot reflected on how surreal the firefighted
men. It wasn't anything like he had witnessed on television or in any movie. Instead of men charging
each other and killing each other in plain sight, here in Triple canopy jungle, he observed green
tracers from AK-47's first or at the most an enemy hand or foot. And somehow the NVA found
firing lanes where they could launch shoulder held B-40 Antipersonal rockets that slammed above
them and around them as they race down the hill. Again, the voices of his special forces and
structures echoed in his mind. They had told the young aspiring green braze at Fort Bragg that
the NVA was a tough resilient opponent. Many had fought against the Japanese during World War II
and against the French driving them from Vietnam in 1954. The sounds of King Bees in the distance
and the crashing thunder of B-40 rockets slamming into trees above his head shook L'Aternot out of
his moment of introspection and turned his undivided attention to the crescendo of AK-47 fire from
the enemy. ST Virginia responded with a volley with volley after volley of full and semi-automatic
gunfire while the turno and show fired several M79 rockets round toward the densest section
of jungle where the AK-47 gunfire was emanating. Through the gunfire someone popped a smoke grenade
which brought the King Bees closer to our T-Virginia's location in the jungle. Over the Denogun fire,
children and cowboy told everyone to put on their Swiss seats and prepare for string extraction.
In short order, a King Bees was hovering over ST Virginia more than 125 feet above the jungle
full. L'Aternot, cowboy, show and haunt hooked their D-rings into the old Maguire rig that hung
from the end of the ropes and shortly were being lifted out of the jungle. As the quartet of
recon men was being lifted in the air, the NVA released another salvo of AK-47 and B-40 rockets
strappin' off from the rockets hit them with varying degrees of size and velocity. All of them were wounded.
It was during these explosions that L'Aternot realized his car 15 and somehow become caught
the rope above him just far enough away that he couldn't reach it. He pulled out his M79 and launched
a grenade toward the NVA positions. Now all he could see of the enemy were hundreds of muzzle
blasts from AK-47s and green trace around climbing upward toward the quartet of ST Virginia men.
Before he could reload his M79, the King Bees began to move away from the target area, surprising
him because the men had not cleared the jungle yet. Instead of continuing to climb out of the target,
moving straight up until the men cleared the jungle's triple canopy of trees and vegetation,
the King Bees was moving away from the target area due to the heavy enemy ground fire.
In recent months, at least two King Bees were shot down during the string extractions from hot
targets but these facts were unknown to L'Aternot at the time.
Shrapnel from B-40 rockets exploded around the ST Virginia men stringing them with pieces of hot
metal, stinging them with pieces of hot metal further spooking the King Bee crew.
L'Aternot began to violently collide with the tall jungle trees, feeling like a metal ball
in a pinball machine, L'Aternot carooned off several more trees at least one more B-40 exploded
in the tree tops again shouring him with trapnel. A tree branch hit L'Aternot from one side
and turned him upside down in his Swiss seat in his Swiss seat. As the rope seat began to slip
down his hips, L'Aternot remembered spider telling how a one-zero from another team had recently
shot out of his Swiss seat during a rope extraction. Another tree struck L'Aternot before he was
able to master the surge of strength and momentum to reach up and grab the rope above him
as his body finally cleared the tree tops. The only thing between him and certain death below
was the jungle floor 200 feet below was the single piece of rope tied into the King Bee.
With one final urgent pull, L'Aternot was able to move himself upright in the Swiss seat
as the King Bee continued to climb higher into the sky, distancing itself from the fury
of exploding B-40s in AK-47 gunfire while gaining air speed.
Well there you go. And Calboy was there for that and he was still recovering from the wounds
from October 5th. Here he is at round Thanksgiving. Yes, so a month and a half later, after your
October 5th insanity, you're out there again. Almost healed. Almost healed.
Oh my god. Becow it to three up. Damn one. Yeah. Noom. And another one that sent my village.
And they won me to go with them. Oh, so that was there from your village and they wanted you to go and help them.
Go to Virginia. Yeah. And then by the way, the new man, Blap. No, the French man.
Oh, because this is the French man's first mission. This is Cherry Mission.
If I'm mission, we don't just, we don't just how he learning. Right. So that's why we got to go strong
enough to protect him. Sure. And by the child, he's very good. Perfect. He's perfect man. But
he only won. And then, uh, French man, he's a new guy. We don't know about him. But, you know,
you know, one zero had run several missions. Yes. Yes. Yes. You know, it's children. They got a
experience. I don't want you know, the French man like a James Schreit.
James Schreit, the first mission. Mm-hmm. He's going. And the first mission is easy to go. That's why,
you know, I'm volunteer to go with the Virginia to take care of my, my three friends,
send my village. And by the way, that the French man, he's a very new man.
So maybe, maybe, Sean. Yes. Maybe, Sean. Then we call him, maybe, Sean. But he did okay. But
he's perfect. Yeah. He's good. You're training good. Did you train him how to kill the dogs?
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. But, you know, we, we very like the machine. Yes.
When I shoot something, he knew I ran out of ammo. He called me and when he ran out of the machine,
I got the ammo. I called with him. So I can't actually, he like the number two. Yes.
He's number two. He's number two. Because I was later on, you know, I know he ran a lot of missions.
And 13. Yes. I know about it. I know he ran a lot of missions. But for sure. That's why he's,
he still shoot a bag of. But that makes you all the more amazing. Yeah. I mean within the third.
A month and a half. Yeah. You go from October 5th to this mission as part of your six years
in size. My scar. Almost here. Not, not really here. Almost here. Well, you got new
straplals too. Yeah. You had the new straplowns from that. But in order, you know, to,
because like a you and me right now, I cannot, you know,
live you alone. Right. I gotta go with you. Sure. Because we glow, friend. Very glow, friend.
Well, that's, that's what it's all about. And it's, uh, it's amazing to be able to sit here and talk to you.
I can't believe that I'm sitting here and talking to you. I can't believe that you survived one of
those missions never mind six years. Yeah. Six years of those missions. I thought just normal.
No, no, that's not just normal. Like somebody else. No, that's, don't know if they're that. We
got paid. Yeah. Right. And then we got the bonus. If we do it the good thing. Like we have a,
get a POW. You remember how much you got paid? One picture. That $500. I know $500.
Yes, just how much is a P. Astor worth. The P. What's on a day? It is maybe a dollar.
So you go and do these missions for a dollar. You're cheap date. Like a $5,000. $5,000 for a picture.
Yeah. Okay. And then for a, yes, it was the Vietnamese currency. We can learn a lot from the shop.
Like you remember, sometimes we got a radio small radio. Right. We get in the jungle. We throw it.
And then some special camera. And we throw in the jungle. And we learn a lot.
We put in the centers too. Yes. And the chances of cameras and sensors and camera and
sensor and radio. You, you, you got to ask me why you told the radio in the jungle. Right.
Right. I never knew about that. So this is all top secret. So top secret. Even I didn't know
until then. No, then no, it's top secret. I'm not a chicken. I know the chicken from the,
from the, from the department. But we don't know or whatever do I have authority to
speak in that. The radio we throw in the jungle. That's mean, you got to have a question.
If the communist pick up the radio who's the one to use it. That's square,
later, a plate to later or company later, and they're blow up. No, they're not blow up.
So inside the radio, they got a something. When they order anything,
airplane, no, what's going on? There you go. Wow. Now, we, we learn from them a lot.
Okay, we talk to them. We learn from them a lot. See it. Or like at the, a flashlight. Yes.
We throw the jungle. Nobody know. And when we're training to throw the flashlight in the jungle,
the first question that they asked me, if you see the flashlight in the jungle,
do you pick it up? I'm going to say no. Do you, you know, you know past the test.
You should pick it up. For the NBA, my pick it up. Yeah, NBA, you got to pick it up.
Oh, they're going to pick it up. I'm saying I want to get out of that. Because you have the thing,
who we try to do something. You're done it. You thought it, it's, it's, it's important thing.
Just normal thing. Okay. The first question they asked you,
you see the flashlight in the jungle, do you pick it up? You say no. That's mean,
something wrong with you. I say yes, right now. And I pick it up. And the second question,
what, what do you do with the flashlight when you pick it up? Turn it on.
Turn it on. You fail the test. Because it might end there. How did you know? When you turn it on,
it blows up. So many, so many learning from, I don't know how to tell you, but you know,
you did a pretty good job. Yeah, I got to learn the last. I got to learning the last.
Okay, team moving. Three NBA that followed you,
the first question that you want to three enemy dead or you want to three, three enemy,
wouldn't it? If I answered the three enemy dead, you go home. You cannot run three on any more.
You want to peel w's? I want to three guy at this one guy that wanted.
Why? Because the team still on the mission. I know the NBA got to take care of them, right?
So that delay the time that they followed the team. And if you get a pill w, you get a bonus.
Yeah, it was a lot of piasters for a pill w. Yeah, I love how many bmw a lot.
Yeah, yeah. Pukupiastes. Pukupiastes. Yeah, like the 100,000, something? Yeah, no. 100,000 piastron.
Yeah, we only got a hundred dollars. So I know what you we get. I didn't hear about that. So I had a bit.
The reason that we got a bonus, but now I found that bonus before that, I don't know anything.
I don't know. Just exactly just empty. I don't know anything about it. But we learn.
We learn from him. We learn from you. We learn from him. We learn a lot. Every different guy.
We learn from you. We talk back up there. I learned from him. He learned from me.
So we we see that out. We so out of spirit. Like I told you, if I show the enemy in the jungle,
I kill him. It's easy. But in order to complete my duty, I got to stay on the ground my five
days. That's why I'm not guilty and enemy. I just stay there. They, they pass you
how smart to handle the, the thing happened. That's why I want to become, you know, the
recon team, it's very difficult. But especially the first thing it protect Lisa.
Protect American guy. To first, the first joint. Protect American guy. But we understand that
we was recourse to refute the American came to the Vietnam.
That's why I can't tell you that I'm so lucky. I'm not good. But you know, just normal.
Just bring everything, get normal better than for me. Well, you're definitely, you're definitely lucky
and I can tell from everything I've seen, you're damn good to. That's a perfect.
Well, lucky. Yeah, amazing. It's just an amazing story to sit here and talk to you and
get this information and, you know, get other people to be able to hear this story is just, it's awesome.
Indeed. Do you got anything else to tell? No, this has been a great ride and thank you for
bringing us together. This is really a special day. It's awesome. You got anything else? Come on. Thank you.
To invite me to be here today. I'll country situation right now. I'm very sad.
I can tell you my dad got a die by the social open. My father did become unity. He's a
capitalist. He's not very rich man, but he's middle guy. He's middle in the Vietnam.
But the communism, it's no good at all. Please send the message to the people.
Don't just the communism. That's why I can say that we here, we saved it. But
after the vote for president situation right now, I'm sad. To let the, at my knowledge, I don't know
it true or not, but another hand from the communism, touched to the United States of America.
I be here for 80, I need 32 years. I never get back to the country. I never visit the Vietnam
even I want to go back there, but for the funerals, I fall out from our friend and Steve back
in the Vietnam. But the Vietnamese government will let me get in. If you don't just me, I got a
paper working there. Me trust you. We do. I work with the General Smith, who's the MIA
accounting? His came in the Hawaii Smith, Camp Smith. This is several years ago, right? No,
it like the 15, 20 years ago. Okay. I went with him regarding about pure darkness. Yes.
Can't climb Robinton and Hongkai, you know, like the helicopter stride, yeah, stride.
But they won't let me get there. I ever met family with the
family. I'm picking up the name, the gang right now, because of Paul King. Yes,
going to be able to poke. It was King and crying over Ka on Alaska when John Allen escaped. He
needed. Well, I can tell you, I think one of the reasons that you start seeing these things in
America is people don't understand communism and they don't realize how evil it is. And so you
coming on here and sharing your story and explaining what you went through, what your father went through,
what your family went through at the hands of the communists. I can assure you that there are
look, there might be some Americans that don't understand, but there are plenty of Americans that
do understand and we will never let that evil form of government control take over this country.
It will never happen. Never I believe so. I believe so, but in my shy, I hear, you know, the
communist want to talk over the US because they mess up, you know, the water. They mess up the computer,
what for the president, he turned over to Mr Joe Biden. I heard a lot of information. So I scan it.
I want to buy a boat. I know the boat now. I got to put it in order to help them. I escaped from
United States. You're not going to need another boat to escape from United States. We will
make sure that doesn't happen. America is stronger than one person and our roots are deep and we
will stay a free country. And because of them like you, we're aware of the be here today. Absolutely.
How they mess up the country right now? The Department of the Humanity, the Federal Export,
the fire and the loss of men get fire. They undercaliable covert to another country.
Why? You say it's very strong, but we got a tech camp. We got to be careful with it.
Remember, combination, control the people by food. You don't have a food. You can't do anything.
That's what they control the people in China. They control the Cuba, they control it. Not Korea.
You are inside the country. You see, hey, hey, look good. They're good. But inside the country.
They say you want to food. You're going to do it. They want to water. You do it. They want to
fish. One month for two or three fish. You gotta do it. I give you the paperwork to go by from the
strong. It's not free. Like here, you're nice to that people. You want anything. You have everything.
You can work for that. You want anything? You got a list and all by me. What do you do?
Just me about the way you did. You say a very strong country. No.
You see it? It's no COVID. How do government say you need a tech mass? Thinking about it.
Why? You know, mid-the-export. He commander with the United States Army. He got fire and another
three-year fire, too. I'm looking back. I asked you the question. I'm wondering, don't lose
anything, right? But why we still get out of Vietnam? Why we lose Vietnam? You're out of this.
Quality. Because now it's politics, but with my experience, the quality they can control.
You're not the hero guy. Like a hero like a man. And then we just them. We're gonna die.
Like the, the time of your mid-the-Obbama. Do you see the picture of Marine in the board?
Surah. What did you think? That was not a good situation. That's all. But why? We still have a picture.
Because people, by the way, in the Washington. Like the mid-the-Trump, they can't do anything.
We're the soldier. We gotta do. And we gotta follow with the order. But they are to us to come to die.
So I'm not a polarist guy. I'm, you know, retired. Man, 72 years old. I can't do anything. I can make any money.
But I am pretty much a student. My grandchild. Grow up. Live in a new combination.
Well, that's a good point. And I appreciate that point. You know, I'm sitting here sitting here saying,
oh, America's strong. But your point is we can't get arrogant and think that it can't happen to us.
We have to remain vigilant all the time. Trust, but verify. And do you sure?
Well, once again, thank you for coming on. Thank you for sharing your stories.
You're always welcome here. Both you guys. Obviously, you're always welcome here.
Thanks for coming to sharing your story. And thank you more importantly for your service to
your country, to this country, to defend freedom and democracy in the world. And thank you for
taking care of your big American brothers on the battlefield. This shield, your Vietnamese brothers,
as well. And thank you for you and your family's sacrifice on the altar of freedom. Amen. Thank you.
And with that tilt and cowboy con, have left the building, leaving nothing but respect and
admiration for incredible service, incredible men and everything that they've gone to.
Everything they've gone through, echo Charles, you were sitting in the corner. Yes. We
have room for you at the table. That's okay. Pretty insane, right? Yes. Very much. So yeah, it's
it's a little bit different when I'm like, ex, not ex-cluded, but ex not in on the table.
Every touch. Yeah, I'm detached even more. So yeah, it is interesting. You can kind of
see and imagine really kind of what's going on and what like everyone went through and how it
was being like in a different culture, you know, and with military and stuff and then you kind of
compare it to all the people that have come on and share their story. Yeah, very interesting.
The crazy thing is they'll all those back to back to back to back years of doing these missions.
I mean, the saw guys could barely get out of their alive. And here's, there's no getting out.
Okay, so there's this part. This might seem kind of random, but this part of that, I remember
where he said that he could smell. He could smell. Yeah, he could be up with that. Yeah. Yeah.
So, and I'll thinking about it where it's like, yeah, I see how that could be really.
When you're so used to a certain environment, you can tell just a little differences, like
100% of that. So, uh, ever using things like when you're at home, right? And if someone just came
over and just left, you come in. I don't even know if you can smell them, but it's probably
has something to do with smell. Or you can definitely smell it. You know how you can put it this way.
That's what I thought to you that you could smell them, but I can't smell something specific.
I know it just smells different. You know that feeling, so it's like it almost does feel like a
little bit of a sense. You know? So imagine that, like, or like, you know how like your
your furniture will be moved just a little bit and you walk in, like, you know, have a little
home office, whatever, and there's this couch. And when I put it in there, it is, it's the perfect,
like I've been stakingly put it a certain distance from the, there's a TV in there too. And
so, in your home office, you have a couch and a TV. Yes, that's some other stuff. That's cool.
And then I make videos. Got it. Anyway, so one time I was fixing something underneath the couch
and I just, you know, had to apparently move it just a little bit and just didn't think about it.
And then when I walked in, like, later that night or whatever, I was like immediately felt it.
It was off by, like, literally one inch, literally. And I could feel it. I looked at it. It was like
through me off, you know? So that's kind of the kind of stuff you're thinking. Yeah, and those guys
growing up in the jungle, they grow up in the jungle. Yeah. And so they're just a hundred percent
in tune with it. And then you got the big, gringo's coming in, you know, and till it keeps calling
himself a city slicker. Amazing. Amazing guys. Well, when I hear stories like that, it certainly
makes me feel like we can step up our game. Like I can definitely step up my game. Like I can
do better. Do better. Always training, like colleagues. Oh man, Cowboys. And you know what?
I don't know if we captured it because we were talking before we pressed record, but he started
getting really into training. He was like, well, how well they trained. And he did mention it
a bunch. You know, he did mention a bunch, but he gave kind of the foundational part about training
before we pressed record. You know, like the foundational, how much it meant. So he kept saying it,
and he really reiterated it, especially at the end. You know, he was reiterating it. But yeah,
it's no doubt, you've always got to train. Always got to be prepared. You never know.
You never know what's going to happen. Train harder. Yeah, kind of applies to everything. To
even if you don't necessarily want to think of it in terms of like, oh, there's an enemy out there,
you know, literally, or even figuratively, if you don't necessarily want to think about that
part of it all the time, it's it has to do with capability because enemy that can be anything if you
want to go metaphor. You're preaching the wrong guy here. I'm down with, but I live for a
little bit. Okay. Oh, well, let's face it. If you have a let's say you're bringing home a,
you know, there's big water jugs, five gallon water jugs. Yeah. You put in a water cooler, whatever.
Let's say you bring in some of those home. Okay. And let's say you don't have a lift gate on your
truck or you, you just have a car, you have a car, but it's in the back seat. And now you got to
reach in there and you got to grab it at this awkward angle. Same saying that in and of itself could
be an enemy. Yeah. Never mind the NVA storming your position. Yeah. More important could the water
bottle is just near the chance of an NVA storming your position today. A little bit lower than you
grab in a water. Yeah. Maybe I don't know. I don't know. Everyone's different. I get it. Nonetheless,
point still remains. Look, we're trying to keep ourselves capable. We're trying to train,
want to keep training. Regardless of how often you are, what's performing? Performing? We'll
call it a performance. Well, you are actually our performing all the time. It's another way of
thinking if things and performing and training all the time. Because you have to learn from your
performance, right? You say it's like a, you know, those deals. Anyway, all right, we're doing it.
Um, through training, comes beatings, comes breakdowns, more or less. Mm-hmm. Most of the time.
Actually all the time, sometimes I just got to leave you to figure it out. Like those statements right
there. Oh, I can tell you're maybe you threw out there as if you'd get some support. No,
I did come. I do do that sometimes, but this is not one of those times. Here's check.
Anyway, when we build ourselves back up, the benefits of training. Sometimes we get little nagging things
in our joints or other places, whatever. We don't want to worry about that kind of stuff. So
Jocco has joint warfare, super-cruil oil. These are supplements, supplementation for your joints.
Okay. So the whole line is called Jocco fuel. So with that, Jocco fuel for your joints
has, like I said, joint warfare, super-cruil oil. We also have for your brain and body, by the way.
Is a, I don't want to call it a product, even though it is a product.
Okay. I'm going to call it a product. We have a product. Don't call it a product. All right. See you. Okay.
You feel me then. Uh, well, that's thing. Yeah. That's been, we have a thing called substance. This is a plan.
So it's discipline. You can take this form of supplementation in actually in a few forms. So you got
the powder version, mix it with the water. That's what I did today. Yes, sir.
Pill don't mix it with water just swallow it. This swallow it. Maybe with some water, whatever.
Okay, or quicker. Quick hitter or in the cans. Kind of like an energy drink, if you will.
Except for one that's literally good for you. Actually, helps you. Actually, help. Yeah. So yes,
your real energy. Yes, not fit. You know what else gives you energy? Cocaine, apparently.
Okay. All right. That's what I heard today. My favorite cocaine gives you energy. Makes you feel like,
hey, I'm going to go and work hard right now. Energetic or crystal meth and fetamine apparently. Yeah.
Yes, you're energy too. Live with different play. Yeah. Now, you don't go around saying,
hey, you should, oh, you need some energy. Do some cocaine. We're not doing that. It's unhealthy.
It's bad for us. It's unhealthy. Yeah, sure. There's other the category that you just used
quote, energy drinks, which are in the same realm. Potentially. Not quite. But okay,
maybe not quite. I understand what you're saying. No, fully. Yes. So yeah, a lot of times when
an energy drink, you're like, hey, let's, let's drink like two, three, four, five energy drinks.
So you can be like, I don't know about all that. Shouldn't we not be drinking energy drinks?
It's kind of you have that feeling a lot of this. Yes. It seems to be insane. But this link
go in the can may even actually might even kind of look like an energy drink. It does it. It's just not
like that. It's this is the actual healthy things. Real energy. Because that's what I was going to say.
Because cocaine is not real energy. Well, it depends on what you mean, but real and it depends on what
you mean by energy. Okay. I mean in the spirit of fear. Well, I have to get some, uh, some somebody
with some expertise in cocaine in here too. Just got an energy and energy. And energy. No,
you know what I'm saying healthy energy drink. Oh, you're saying, don't do cocaine. Yes. Instead,
correct. Try discipline going again. All of the negative benefits. No. Do you remember that?
No, not all those things I got. I brought, I was on Theo Vans podcast. And he was drinking
a discipline go and he said something really funny. And he gets, it's kind of slid under the radar
comment. But he said something comparing it to cocaine. And he said, I think I'm going back on a
cocaine. Yeah. That's what's in my brain right now. Yeah. That's weird because I don't like,
I don't pound well. I have. I want like drink the whole thing super fast. But then actually,
that's not sure I have. But when you drink it super fast, then yeah, I think you'll get a like a little
jolt. Yeah. Well, super fast, meaning how long when you down it like in three, four or less hits.
Oh, that's a, that's definitely down in the lab one for sure. Yeah. Oh, yeah, for sure. But no,
if I if I drink like two over the course of a podcast, like I will not feel like what I imagine,
cocaine feels like. Yeah. I've never done cocaine. Yeah. I mean, either. Nonetheless,
it's not cocaine. It's good for you. Yeah. It's a crystal method and fedamine and cocaine are
not good for you. No, I know. Yes. Jocardism and go is good for you. Okay. Well, I think that's what
we're trying to say over here. Yeah. Yeah. It's true. Also, it's being a good for you. By the mean D three,
yeah. Jocco fuel, very good for you. Keep you healthy immune system strong, also immune system strong,
stuff cold war is another one. So boom, you got the whole gambit. Yeah. What's gambit, right?
That's correct. That's good. Did you see? We're using a poll. Yeah. Oh, no, stuff. You know,
for that kind of stuff, you don't want to worry about. You see, yeah, plus we got milk. We got
warrior kid milk, which is protein that tastes good, plus we got Jocco White T and plus all the
stuff that we're talking about. You can get it at originmain.com or you can get it at the vitamin
shop or you can get it at walla in Florida right now. And it looks like very soon walla all over the
east coast. It looks like we're heading in that direction. Yeah. So everyone that's been, oh,
by the way, everyone that in Florida has been going out and basically getting after clearing
shelves. Thank you. Thank you. We're heading in the right direction. Beach head, the beach head is
under the process of being secured at this time, which we feel good about. Yeah. Yeah.
Also, yes, so you mentioned originmain.com or back to originmain.com. This is what you where you can
get American made stuff, including but not limited to Juicy Giz, Rashcards, some hoodies on there,
some joggers on there, some shorts on there, which I don't, I haven't been talking about. But
aside from board shorts, they're the only shorts I wear. But you know, they wear board shorts.
Very often. Oh, yes, I do. Oh, in the on the massive justice. Matt's of justice. Work out.
Every single day in Hawaii. Yeah. It's either board shorts or that straight up. Got it. Check.
I jumped the proverbial gun on that one. Oh, good. Hey, we're all here training learning.
Also, because I only see you in the origin shorts. The shark fin short. That's the only
shorts I see you in because unless we're on the mats. Right. Yeah. Objustice. Yeah.
Screw. Also, at originmain, still in our domain, genes American made denim from the
cotton grown to make the fabric to make the denim to make the genes all made in America.
Yeah. By the way, also boots on there. Don't get genes are back in the game. Yeah. Delta
Seek. I'm wearing them right now. Yeah. I saw that. Yeah. That's fun. And I saw you, you kind of like
gave me a you grabbed the material and kind of pulled it. Right. What was your assessment?
Yeah. I'll for yeah. Well, my assessment was that they have some give some legitimate give to
them and it did I just reflect it on the fact that I don't have any. I'm really sorry, but
the new Delta genes are freaking and they are a little bit new. So we had the original Delta
genes and then during COVID we re-engineered some stuff. We got some denim that we liked even more.
Read the what is it? The cut. Yeah. They're just they're just freaking awesome now. So
where they always dark like that dark you probably see I my OG pair of Delta's that I just
wore. I wear them all the time and so they they're like genes because they fade a little bit. They
fade as time goes on. So the pair that you're seeing right now are basically. Oh, right. I knew.
Gotcha. No, I like the dark denim. Yeah. Well, it will fade over time. Right on. Cool. Yeah.
So what do you mean? Duck home. Also boots. I forgot that. Yeah. Don't forget about the same deal. Yeah.
Works of art. Art for your feet. Free of feet. Made in America. Oh, good. Also,
jacquoise stores called jacquoise store. This is where you can get a discipline equals freedom,
shirts, hats, hoodies, lightweight and heavy by the way. So when the stuff on there are some
beenies, some rash guards, some soap, some soap, some warrior kid soap or you can soap,
jacquoise soap, trooper soap. Yeah. Killer soap. By the way, all this stuff that we're talking about. If you
want to support the podcast, you want to provide some level of. Sip arch. All the stuff helps us out.
You know, that way, that way we don't have to get sponsors. Yeah. There's this might be annoying.
Which I'm sure it is. Oh, this whole thing. But okay, maybe not for you. But for a lot of people, this
might be super annoying. But the cool thing is you don't have to listen to it. We didn't put it in the
middle of, you know, cut off cowboy and just start. Here's a word from, whatever. We're not doing that.
Yeah, that is. So we appreciate it when you get, if you look, we need stuff and I'm out of big,
what's the, what's the minute? I will look when I want to be a minimalist. Right? We want to be a minimalist.
I don't want to be a bunch of stuff. But there's stuff that you do need. For instance, do you need a
a geek? Yes, you do. Do you need a pair of jeans? Yes, you do. Do you need a t-shirt? Yes, you do.
Do you need food? Yes, you do. Do you need supplementation? Yes, you, like, all these, we're just making
stuff that you need. So if you need it, you can get it from us. It helps out the podcast. It provides
that a little bit of that support. So yeah, it's like a win-win. Can I help say everything? Yeah,
you could go to like a local store. It's by right? Yeah, you could. After jeans that were made in China,
yeah, you could do that. I mean, you are allowed to, but it's not really, it's not really,
let's face it's not really what you want to do. No, very questionable. First question,
it will behave here. Anyways, speaking of this podcast, you can say anyway. No, no, okay,
it's because subscribing actually. So, Jocca, subscribe to the store. Okay. So we have a t-shirt club.
We'll call it a subscription scenario where you get a, like, a, how should I say, like a unique,
unique, I guess, yeah, I guess that's a given. Anyway, you get to share every month that's kind of more,
like, it's different, but it's still in the game on the path, et cetera. Anyway,
goodjocca start.com and you can check them out and see if you like that one. But yeah, that's a cool
little thing people been doing that we offer. It's pretty cool. And then if you get a t-shirt from this
thing, you can't get it anywhere else. No, you can't even really get it on the store really.
It's they're only for like, you'll see like when you see kind of the examples of someone you
be like, okay, this kind of makes sense. They're fun and they're, you know, play, yeah, we have,
we're, there's always all kinds of cool ideas that come in for shirts for this for that,
but we can't just execute them all. No, they're very level scale. Yeah. So, you know, we're doing
a lot of an exclusive scale kind of. Yeah. No, what do you mean kind of? I don't know. I don't know
what you meant by scale. That's an exclusive scale meaning we're not doing it on a mass scale.
Hey, everyone that wants one of these, no, it's on a more exclusive scale. Like, oh, we don't have to
make whatever, however many, whatever number of t-shirts is, there's no what, but someone's going
order. Yeah. Yeah, you're correct. If they're in the game, then we know it and you get a shirt.
Yeah, that's cool. That looks more layers. There are many layers all infused in that situation.
No, I see us. Jocalsore.com. Also, like, Jocals in the K-80, you can subscribe to this podcast on
where we subscribe to podcast. There you go, boom. And don't forget about the unraveling podcast
that I, I also record and don't forget about the grounded podcast, which we are supposed to
record, but we haven't recorded a lot of, don't forget about the Warrior Kid podcast, which
hopefully during Thanksgiving, when some people don't have to work, I'll be able to
slip in there and record some Warrior Kid podcast. So we're going to work on that one. Don't forget
about we have a YouTube channel, a YouTube channel. And this is where the creative mind of echo
Charles manifests itself via explosions, tanks, airplanes. And if you want to watch a video that's
30 seconds long that has a lot of stuff blown up, go there. If you also want to watch a video
that's four hours long with nothing blowing up, you also go there. Yeah, boom. Yes, that is true,
YouTube channel. Good, official, by the way. Also, psychological warfare, if you don't know what that is,
it's an album, audio album, tracks of Jocco telling you, explain to you how to get past your moments
of weakness in the event of them arising, which they do from time to time. Let's face it. But yeah,
have Jocco there, just tell you, hey, you shouldn't do this, you should do this. See this thing,
you're thinking about doing that you won't want to have done. Don't do that. Don't do that,
thank you. Jocco version of that. It's actually really helpful. My opinion, we also have a visual
version of that flipsidecampus.com to code a Meyer making all kinds of cool stuff. There's a bunch
of books. What books do we cover today? Well, we're talking about sag. So if you're going to jump
in a sag, you can get across the fence on the ground and sag the chronicles by John Stryker Meyer
and then you can also get whiskey, tango, fox trot by Lynn Black. You need about face by David
Hackworth. There's a new version now, a re-release that I wrote the forward to. There's leadership
strategy and tactics field manual. There's the code, the protocols and the evaluations.
There's discipline, it's freedom field manual. There's a brand new version of that out. That's
a good go to for that Christmas scenario. The holiday scenario. Check that one out.
Way the warrior kid for field manual is also, I think it's live right now. Yeah, it's live.
Way the warrior kid for field manual. Here's the thing on all these. From what I understand,
Intel, there's going to be a shortage of aircraft, trucks and laborers, drivers, pilots,
during Christmas because everything is going to be shipped. So if you want to get any of this
stuff, even though I know you were all trying to be minimalist, but kids need a freaking book to read.
So get them way the warrior kid for field manual. Way the warrior kid one, two and three,
Mikey in the dragons and then extreme ownership and then economy leadership. I have a leadership
consultant. He called Eshelon front where we solve problems through leadership. You can go to
Eshelonfront.com for that. We have EF online, which is where we do leadership training,
online interactive. So you can go check that out. EF online.com. We got the master in Dallas,
Texas. You can come check that out in extreme ownership.com. We have EF Overwatch, which is
executive leadership for your company. That understands the principles that we talk about.
If you want to help service members active and retired, their families, gold star families,
if you want to help out veterans and if you want to help out American service, men and women,
then check out Mark Lee's mom, mom, Ali, she has a charity organization. You can go and donate or
get involved at americasmideoriors.org. And if you like to torment yourself,
well, you can do so with more of my protracted pronouncements or maybe some more of Echos
hyped up high-poffices. You can find us on the inner web on Twitter on Instagram and just so
echo knows. He's the only refers to Instagram as the gram and also on Facebook,
Echoes, Adacquicharals, and I'm at Jocquawilink. And it should more importantly be known that
John Stryker Meyer is on Instagram at J. Stryker Meyer. And once again, thanks to Tilt and Cowboy
for their incredibly heroic, we need a new word beyond heroic for their service to America and
freedom, we will not forget the sacrifice or the legacy of these warriors. And thanks to all
the warriors all over the world in the army, navy, air force, marines, co-sguard. And also to those
foreign nationals that we fight alongside. Thank you for defending freedom. And the same
two police and law enforcement firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers, correctional officers,
board of patrol, secret service, and all first responders. Thanks for keeping us safe here at home.
And to everyone else out there, I've got one thing to say.
Chuhoy, Dumah! Until next time, this is Echo and Jocco.
anguard motherland campaign called